Striving for success is fine as long as you accept that the outcome is outside your control.

Reach up in your relationships. Find people better than you.

Taking massive actions is the only way to fulfill your true potential.

Trying to maximize your own happiness can actually make you feel self-absorbed and lonely, but giving more can drive meaning and happiness in your life.

Writing reveals the story because you have to write to figure out what you’re writing about

Finding your own voice and sharing that voice with the world is the most important thing.

How can we possibly justify — to our employees, to our investors, to our spouses, to our friends, to our fellow citizens, or to ourselves — learning slowly, by experience or trial and error, what we can easily pick up in a book?

To not pick up a book is a dereliction of duty.

Not every reader is a leader, Harry Truman once observed, but every leader is a reader.

“If you’re going to make progress in the world you’ve got to have a clear sense, a realistic sense, an unsentimental sense, of how things really work: the mixed motives that compel some people and the high motives that compel some others. And the low motives that unfortunately captivate other people.”

One of my favorite questions to probe thinking is to ask what information would cause someone to change their mind. Immediately stop listening and leave if they say ‘I can’t think of anything.

Our executives get the same group insurance, same holidays, and same vacations as everybody else. They eat lunch in the same cafeterias. They fly economy class on regular commercial flights (although we do allow the use of frequent flyer upgrades). We have no executive suites and no executive cars. At headquarters, our “corporate dining room” is the deli across the street.

The most frequently used written word in the language is ‘the’, but the most frequently spoken word is ‘I.’

The book recommends a few simple steps you can take to increase your power:
1. be visible;
2. emphasize the aspects you’re good at;
3. make those in power feel good about themselves;
4. if you must point out a mistake by someone in power, blame the situation or others; and
5. shower those above with flattery.

“Creativity is just connecting things. When you ask creative people how they did something, they feel a little guilty because they didn’t really do it, they just saw something. It seemed obvious to them after a while.”

I value you and I value your effort. It has not gone unnoticed.

Best Podcasts — The Knowledge Project

Naval Ravikant: One of the most popular podcasts on the site, this conversation is a must-listen.

Adam Grant: Givers, Takers, and the Resilient Mind

Ray Dalio: Life Lessons from a Self-Made Billionaire

Barbara Oakley: Learning How to Learn

Annie Duke: Getting Better By Being Wrong

Ben Thompson: Thriving in a Digital World

Patrick Collison: Earnings Your Stripes

Tobi Lutke: The Trust Battery

Ed Latimore: The Warrior Poet

Tyler Cowen: Thinking About Thinking

Consensus kills creativity. If you try to be acceptable to everyone, you won’t be exceptional to anyone.

Organizations should reward risk-takers, even if they fall short once in a while

It’s better to be a ‘learn-it-all’ than a ‘know-it-all’

Invest your time actively and your money passively. It’s the best kept secret in the world

Doing less is not being lazy. Don’t give in to a culture that values personal sacrifice over personal productivity.”

The ethos of efficiency and productivity risks prioritizing the health of the economy over the happiness of humans.

Show me your bookshelf, the courses you take, or the questions you ask, & I’ll have a hint as to how much you care about levelling up.

When you discover that the “job” is in the way of the work, change your job so you can go back to creating value.

All we can do is our best work. All we can do is share our ideas with generosity, speak up and shine a light.

Don’t check email first thing in the morning.

You can control a slave much better by convincing him he is an employee.

Courage is the only virtue you cannot fake.

Meditation is a way to be narcissistic without hurting anyone.

If you’re not pissing some people off, you’re doing it wrong.

For guys, all you need is 3-4 dress shirts, 3-4 T-Shirts, two pairs of jeans, a nice pair of pants, some shorts, exercise shoes, dress shoes, a coat, a jacket, a sweater, maybe a sweatshirt, socks, and underwear.

If you’re at the top of the food chain, you have no reason to be inhibited or to defer to others (unless you want to).

But let’s look at this from a more practical point of view. What’s the point of buying a bunch of nice crap? 1) To impress other people. 2) To feel better about yourself. We’ve already covered how well impressing people go over (Spoiler Alert: not well). But let’s look at feeling better about yourself. There are mounds of psychological research showing that materialism leads to greater rates of depression and less happiness in people. There’s a reason the US has some of the highest rates of depression and anxiety disorders in the developed world. That dependence on external validation to feel good about yourself causes low self-esteem and makes you miserable.

Some examples of good, healthy values: honesty, building something new, vulnerability, standing up for oneself, standing up for others, self-respect, curiosity, charity, humility, creativity.

Some examples of bad, unhealthy values: dominating others through manipulation or violence, fucking more men/women, feeling good all the time, always being the center of attention, not being alone, being liked by everybody, being rich for the sake of being rich, sacrificing small animals to the pagan gods.

Instead of chasing and pursuing or wishing and hoping, you focus on consistently improving yourself and presenting that self to the beautiful strangers of the world.

The myth is of the lone creative entrepreneur battling the world without an ally in sight.

Who we know and what we do that influences more than any other factor, who we will become.

By the time you are 50 something, you realized that you worried all your way to your 50’s when everything turned out OK.

If you are not a strong, kind person yourself, you have little hope of finding a partner that is those things. Long term relationships are made of devotion, friendship, kindness, and emotional strength. Not romance, sex, and love.

Seek out the highest-value content you can find, and then pay for it.

Bloggers such as Tim Urban, Ben Thompson, Tyler Cowen, Scott Alexander, and Dan Wang provide a ton of value for little to no cost at all.

Overestimate your future, underestimate your past. Acknowledging you know nothing and that you’ve accomplished nothing will give you the benefits of humility. But the positive expectation will give the benefits of higher performance. Another version: “I still understand little, but I’m capable of accomplishing a lot.”

Forget what other people are doing, forget what they’re doing wrong. You’ve got enough on your plate. Focus on yourself—focus on what you might be doing wrong. Fix that. Keep an eye fixed on your own life. There’s no need—and frankly, there’s not enough time—to waste a second spying on other people.

We all love ourselves more than other people but care more about their opinion than our own.

If you desire to do great things, then remember that you must give things your full attention — not just a mild effort — and leave many other things alone for the time being.

Has your child died? It was given back. Has your wife died? She was given back. Has your estate been taken from you? Was not this also given back?

Learning how to focus and prioritize your thoughts effectively based on finely honed personal values is perhaps the greatest and most important struggle in life.

You can’t merely be in love with the result. Everybody loves the result. You have to love the process.

If you ever stop loving the climb, the results will never come.

If it feels like it’s you versus the world, chances are it’s really just you versus yourself.

If there is no reason to do anything, if life is pointless, then there is also no reason to not do anything. What do you have to lose? You’re going to die anyway, so your fears and embarrassments and failures don’t mean anything. You might as well try.

Why would I need someone to make sure I do my job correctly?

Every task I can think of is aided by an awareness of breath. It is the connective tissue of the universe, binding all living creatures together. By focusing on our breath, we are able to more adeptly inhabit our bodies and function on instinct.

Hold yourself to a higher standard and the people around you will alter their behavior to meet that standard, or they’ll simply cease to be the people around you.

Having open, intimate conversations with someone where you’re able to openly talk about one another’s flaws without resorting to blaming or shaming is possibly the hardest thing to do in any relationship.

A large population of people who play games, buy household goods online, and order food delivery does not make a country a technological or scientific leader.

Science fiction has the capacity to inspire by setting the vision of a radically better future, and by making it clear that the future won’t happen unless we put in the work.

The most important priorities in war are management of material resources, then operational excellence, and finally general strategy.

Frequent travel is exhausting, but there’s no almost no better way to learn how to be highly efficient. One has to learn to be effective at every step: preparing for trips, sustaining energy during the trip, and delivering output afterwards. Otherwise, the whole thing breaks down.

Elites nowadays “have no real sense of initiative beyond petty matters”.

I think we tend to discount how much knowledge we can gain in the course of production, as well as how it should feed back into the design process.

I was in Germany earlier this year to study its excellence in industry. I can’t claim to totally understand how the systems all work, but I can identify at least a few factors of success: academic collaboration, corporate encouragement, and a commitment to pass on skills all play a part. I’m especially struck by the attitude of older workers, who feel they have a responsibility to transfer their knowledge to younger workers.

The most important skills now are entrepreneurship and creative problem solving. Reinventing yourself, selling yourself, carving out a new niche for yourself. Figuring out what’s going to be the next big thing and pursuing it without anyone else watching over you. We’re in XKCD’s world now, where 900 hours of classes and 400 hours of homework matter less to your career success than one weekend messing around with a programming language in 11th grade. The Prussian model of education stamps out the kind of independent agency that could help people navigate the weird, formless 21st century world.

What if it said “I don’t know what you 老外 are doing in America, but I’m not crushing anybody. I’m just telling kids to sit here drawing 1,000 raindrops in a row without moving or protesting. If after that you decide you don’t want to found the next Uber, that’s on you. But if you do decide to found the next Uber, I will have taught you the most important skill: discipline. Learning how to sit still and obey others is the necessary prerequisite to learning how to sit still and obey yourself.”

If you have to try to be cool, you will never be cool. If you have to try to be happy, you will never be happy.

If you have more than you spend, you’re rich.

The paradoxical point of all self-improvement is to reach a point where you no longer feel you need to improve yourself.

Because the only way to truly benefit from self-improvement is to one day arrive at a place where you no longer need it. Like a cast for a broken arm. Or a bandage for a deep cut. You put it on, let it heal you. And then you take it off and move on with your life.

Create ridiculous standards for yourself and then savor the inevitable failure. Let the ground crack and rocks crumble around you because that’s how something amazing grows, through the cracks.

It’s the perpetual pursuit of fulfilling our ideal selves that grants us happiness, regardless of superficial pleasures or pain, regardless of positive or negative emotions.

Let go of the imagined result—it’s not necessary. The fantasy and the dream are merely tools to get you off your ass. It doesn’t matter if they come true or not. Live, man. Just live. Stop trying to be happy and just be.

The main thing is to keep the main thing the main thing.

The only way to deliver to the people who are achieving is not to burden them with people who are not achieving.

When in doubt, do not hire.

Always confront uncomfortable truths head on, but never lose faith that you’ll work it out.

Substance over style

“It is my opinion” does not qualify as an acceptable argument.

When someone has a gut instinct that “something is just wrong ,“ we pay attention; instincts can be good early warning systems. But we don’t just stop there: we then conduct a disciplined, fact-based assessment of the situation.

Spend less time worrying about money and more time fulfilling our mission.

"If you've been blessed," Campbell used to say, "be a blessing."

I don’t care how you got here. It’s what you do when you get here.

"People who live far below their means enjoy a freedom that people busy upgrading their lifestyles can’t fathom."

Spend each day trying to be a little wiser than you were when you woke up. Discharge your duties faithfully and well. Step by step you get ahead, but not necessarily in fast spurts. But you build discipline by preparing for fast spurts… Slug it out one inch at a time, day by day, at the end of the day – if you live long enough – most people get what they deserve. – Charlie Munger

You’re not the star—the reader is.

The foundation of learning is reading. I don’t know a smart person who doesn’t read and read all the time. And the problem is, what do I read? How do I read? Because for most people it’s a struggle, it’s a chore. So, the most important thing is just to learn how to educate yourself and the way to educate yourself is to develop a love for reading. So, the tweet that is left out, the one that I was hinting at is, “read what you love until you love to read.” It’s that simple.

Leadership is not domination, but the art of persuading people to work toward a common goal.”

Forgiveness is choosing to not let negative events of the past define how you feel about someone or something in the present.

The point of this is to say that forgiveness is a purely psychological process. It doesn’t necessarily have any real-world repercussions (unless you want it to).

When you carry resentment with you—when you hold onto anger towards yourself or others—it weighs you down like a chain hanging across your shoulders. It drains energy, increases stress and makes you no fun at birthday parties. Developing the ability to let go of resentment and forgive is therefore a fundamental tool for your sanity toolbox.

But the hard pill to swallow here is this: part of you is now dead and gone. It’s time to accept that and start rebuilding your life so you can move on.

Take responsibility for your own thoughts and feelings, pull up your britches, and never forget this is for the best. I promise. Your mission is to prosper without him or her; to be independent. The way you handle this emotional scar will determine if it’s becomes a great personal story of overcoming adversity or a permanent emotional deformity.

If you think about it, we don’t really miss them, we miss the idea of them.

Just remember: on the timeline of your whole life, this is likely a minor event, even if it doesn’t feel like it.

Over-analyzing never added a second to anyone’s life. You’re going to be fine with or without them.

Be cool and focus on what’s in your control, not what they’re doing. Don’t go out of your way to talk to them, and don’t go out of your way to avoid them. Both are reactive. Allow yourself a narrow range of laid-back reactions to them, because it’s not about them anymore. It’s about taking care of you.

The more you are hurt, the less you should talk.

“A relationship based on love… is one in which each partner allows the other to be what he or she chooses, with no expectations and no demands. It is a simple association of two people who love each other so much that each would never expect the other to be something that he or she wouldn’t choose for himself. It is a union of independence, rather than dependence.”

Besides, believing that he or she is better than everyone else is an insult to the literally millions of other people that you would find attractive and intelligent.

I highly recommend taking some time off to get over your ex before jumping back in the dating scene. The timing is different for everyone, but generally, you should wait until you can avoid comparing the new person to your ex; the new person deserves as much of a blank slate as possible. The worst thing you can do is immediately start dating a new person in order to “fill the void” the ex left behind.

Every large undertaking ever accomplished was broken down into steps small enough to be done in a single day.

Remember, it is never the calm seas that reveal the strength of a vessel. The way you weather the storm shows what material you’re made of. You’ll make it.

The healthy response to loss is to slowly but surely construct new relationships and bring new meaning into one’s life.

A toxic relationship is when two people are emotionally dependent on each other—that is, they use each other for the approval and respect they are unable to give themselves.

A healthy relationship is when two people are emotionally interdependent with each other—that is, they approve of and respect each other because they approve of and respect themselves.

And then silently reminded myself that relationships evolve, that the joy and benefits of love in week three are not the same as the joy and benefits in year three or decade three. And that’s fine. Love grows and expands and changes, and just because you possessed a fleeting excitement, does not mean it was better. Or even necessary at all.

Our minds have a tendency to only remember the best qualities of our past. We delete the tedious and monotonous and just remember the highlight reel. Ever meet up with an ex a few years later and wonder to yourself, “Holy shit, me and this person dated?!?” Yeah, that’s because our memories aren’t accurate.

The more contact you’re in, the more risk you run of setting off an emotional time bomb, relapsing, and ending up in that messy no-man’s land of “we’re not together, but we’re still kind of together, but we’re definitely not boyfriend and girlfriend. I’m going to call really quick to check in, but seriously we’re not together — why are you looking at me like that?”

If you can’t find pleasure in the simple or the mundane, then you won’t find pleasure anywhere.

Life isn’t meant to be conquered.

A wonderful example is a salesman truly believing that his product will improve the lives of its users.

You want to avoid repetitive drudgery—that’s just biding time until your job is automated away.

You can get a lot out of almost any position. You just have to put a lot into it.

In a long-term game, it seems that everybody is making each other rich. And in a short-term game, it seems like everybody is making themselves rich.

Get some traction. Get purchase, and don’t lose it. So, the idea was to gain some initial traction, and never fall back, just keep ratcheting up, and up.

“People are not thinking about you and I or caring what is said about us. They are thinking about themselves—before breakfast, after breakfast, and right on until ten minutes past midnight. They would be a thousand times more concerned about a slight headache of their own than they would about the news of your death or mine.”

But just because something is good for progress, doesn’t mean it’s good for a person.

You thought that doing important or impressive work will make you happy. This was precisely wrong. It’s that being happy will help us do important and impressive work, quite possibly better and more pure work.

To get to do the work—that’s the reward, not whether the work is recognized.

All players must meet problems with a reaction (even choosing not to react to a problem, is itself, a reaction). All reactions can be divided up in two ways: Solutions and Distractions.

As Steve Jobs said, only the big choices remain meaningful in the face of death. Small embarrassing moments, things that didn’t go exactly as planned, missed dinner parties—all of these fade away, only leaving the big picture and the important decisions.

Lots of anxiety and dread out there. I hope y’all are taking care of yourselves. Keeping it on the one and all. Things that have been working for me, other than drawing: no phone in the morning, taking lots of walks, re-reading favorite books, playing music, voting early and avoiding the news as much as possible, making art with my little dudes, cheerful retrospection in my diary, and not thinking about my life after dinner. (And don’t forget to wash those hands!)

It’s only after you’re bored that you have the great ideas.

Guard your time. Forget the money.

If we work together, say, and, even with one look, I make you understand that you are worth nothing and I look down on you, I have killed you. But if I give you regards and respect — out of esteem, responsibility is spawned. Then out of responsibility comes creativity, because every human being has an amount of genius in them. Man needs dignity even more than he needs bread.

The daily business, the daily life, the daily chores, kills the human being.“ I’m not interested in daily chores. We have now swapped information for knowledge, which is not the same thing. I do not want to know. I’m not online. I don’t even have a computer.

I feel responsible for the beauty in the world.

This century is where enlightenment and romanticism must blend.

I never met anyone who after being paid a compliment did not feel better.

There are three things you cannot buy. Fitness: You have to keep fit, whether you’re rich or not. Diet: You cannot pay someone to be on a diet for you. I think that diet is the biggest sacrifice in my life. Then, looking after your soul. No one can possibly treat your soul but you yourself. This is something you can do through culture and philosophy.

You should live as if it was the last day of your life, plan as if you were to live forever.

I am interested in the quality of working hours, not the quantity.

“When I think about what it would take to achieve freedom from all psychological stuff, the response that comes is this: life is about stuff. Stuff is part of being alive. There is no way out of this while you are still living. There will be confusion, pain, miscommunication, misinterpretation, and maladaptive patterns of behavior, unhelpful emotional reactions, weird personality traits, neurosis and possibly much worse. There will be power plays, twisted psychological games, people with major personality disorders (which may include you), and craziness. The injuries continue right along with the healing and eventually the injuries win and we die. This is a fundamental teaching of the Buddha. I wish the whole Western Buddhist World would just get over this notion that these practices are all about getting to our Happy Place where nothing can ever hurt us or make us neurotic and move on to actually mastering real Buddhist practice rather than chasing some ideal that will never appear.”

These objects and postures are not that important, but understanding impermanence directly is.

what is meant by no-self: There are absolutely no sensations that can observe other sensations! (Notice that reality is made entirely of sensations.) There are no special sensations that are uniquely in control of other sensations. There are no sensations that are fundamentally split off from other sensations occurring at that moment. To begin to unravel this mystery is to begin to awaken. Simply put, reality with a sense of a separate watcher is delusion, and unconditioned reality, reality just as it is, is awakening. Quick point here: people can use the truth of no-self to rationalize all sorts of strange behaviors because they misunderstand it as nihilism. “It’s all illusion anyway,” they might say. It absolutely isn’t.

So don’t make stories, but know this: things come and go, they don’t satisfy, and they ain’t you. That is the truth. It is just that simple.

“Thus, “let it go” at its best actually means, “don’t give a bunch of transient sensations an excessive sense of solidity.” It does not mean, “stop feeling or caring,” nor does it mean, “pretend that the noise in your mind is not there.”

If you do the technique, you will see all of this and more. If not, reading about it won’t help you. It’s just another content trap, but a seductive one for us pseudo-intellectuals.

Get to know your actual reality really, really well, and try to do right by yourself and the world.

It is absolutely essential to try to figure out how you experience thoughts, otherwise you will simply flounder in content. What do thoughts feel like? Where do they occur? How big are they? What do they look like, smell like, taste like, sound like? How long do they last? Where are their edges? Only take on this practice if you are willing to try to work on this level, the level that tries to figure out what thoughts actually are rather than what they mean or imply.”

One last thing about equanimity: its near enemy, its deadening imposter, is indifference. Real equanimity is accepting of the full range of the heart and experience, whereas indifference is dry, flat and heartless. This point is frequently misunderstood. However, being accepting of the full range of the heart doesn’t mean always acting on whatever impulse comes up. Act only on the impulses of the heart that seem skillful and kind.

One reader named Daniel told me, “I jump out of bed every morning without any hesitation. The reason? The only way to turn off my alarm is to scan a QR Code I keep in the bathroom. This worked wonders for me.”

Natalie started picking up her cluttered clothes and building better cleaning habits simply by reducing the number of steps between her and the laundry basket. “I quit leaving my socks all over the floor by putting a little basket beside the door to collect them in.”

I stopped biting my fingernails mostly by making sure clippers were always close at hand – especially at work.

You default to saying no and only say yes when it really makes sense.

Interviewer: “Did you know as a child you wanted to be a writer?”

Toni Morrison: “No. I wanted to be a reader. I thought everything that needed to be written had already been written or would be. I only wrote the first book because I thought it wasn’t there, and I wanted to read it when I got through.

Putting yourself in the mind of someone who is coming to Slack for the first time — especially a real someone, who is being made to try this thing by their boss, who is already a bit hangry because they didn’t have time for breakfast, and who is anxious about finishing off a project before they take off for the long weekend — putting yourself in their mind means looking at Slack the way you look at some random piece of software in which you have no investment and no special interest. Look at it hard, and find the things that do not work.

“Be harsh, in the interest of being excellent.”

Only knowledge that does us good is worth knowing. Everything else is trivia.

Well, the same is true for much less lethal professions. How dare you waste your investor’s money by not reading and learning from the mistakes of other entrepreneurs? What is the upside of trying to figure out how to lead a sports team all on your own, and not looking for shortcuts and lessons from seasoned coaches and students of the game who have published books?

And yes, love is the answer, love is the key
but if you can’t love yourself
how could you ever love me?

“Peace is happiness at rest; happiness is peace in motion.” Someone who’s peaceful at rest will end up happy when they do an activity. While a happy person sitting idle will be peaceful. The ultimate goal is not happiness, even though we use that term a lot. The goal is peace.

Stumbling on happiness book

Compounding attention.

It’s only when we can’t change our experience that we look for ways to change our view of the experience.

The average person doesn’t seem herself as average.

We are what we do. We are not what we think, or what we say, or how we feel. We are what we do.

The three components of happiness are:
* something to do
* someone to love
* something to look forward to

Our children owe us nothing.

Well-functioning families are good at letting their children go. Poorly functioning families tend to hold on to them.

Any relationship is under the control of the person who cares the least.

Only bad things happen quickly. All the happiness-producing processes in our lives take time, usually a long time: learning new things, changing old behaviors, building satisfying relationships, raising children. This is why patience and determination are among life’s primary virtues.

It is our task to transfer that love to those who still need us.

I ask people in conflict to withhold criticism of those around them to see if this changes the atmosphere. It is amazing how radical this suggestion seems.

Given love and support, most children grow into happy, productive adults independent of whatever theory of parenting they were raised with.

The problem with longing for paradises is that it distracts us from our efforts to extract pleasure and meaning from the present.

Life can be seen as a series of relinquishments, rehearsals for the final act of letting go of our earthly selves.

When you die, you are grieved by all the atoms of which you were composed.
They hung together for years, whether in sheets of skin or communities of spleen.
With your death they do not die. Instead, they part ways, moving off in their separate directions, mourning the loss of a special time they shared together, haunted by the feeling that they were once playing parts in something larger than themselves, something that had its own life, something they can hardly put a finger on.

The lens problem affects anyone who has unique knowledge of anything: the boss who understands a proposal inside out and is trying to convey the ideas to new clients, the inventor who knows precisely why her invention is so important speaking to impatient venture capitalists, or the coworker who is “just teasing” a new hire who knows nothing of the teaser’s friendly intentions. The expert’s problem is assuming that what’s so clear in his or her own mind is more obvious to others.

If you lack a grand goal in living, you lack a coherent philosophy of life.

The sage is a target to aim at, even though you fail to hit it.

We're unhappy because we're insatiable. After working hard to get what we want, we lose interest in the object of our desire. Rather than feeling satisfied, we feel a bit bored, and in response to this boredom, we go on to form new, even grander desires.

While kissing your child, silently reflect on the possibility that she will die tomorrow.

As we go about our day, periodically pause to reflect on the fact that you will not live forever and therefore this day could be your last.

There is a difference between contemplating something bad happening and worrying about it. Contemplation is an intellectual exercise. Conduct such exercises without affecting your emotions.

The key to having a good life is to value things that are genuinely valuable and be indifferent to things that lack value.

Internalize your goals. Make a goal not to change the world, but to do your best to bring about certain changes. Even if your efforts prove to be ineffectual, you can rest easy knowing you accomplished your goal: You did what you could do.

Be selective about which social functions you attend.

There is no JAHIL DUNIYA. Its all us.

The Stoics were big advocates of marriage. A wise man will marry, and having married, he and his wife will work hard to keep each other happy. In a good marriage, two people will join in a loving union and will try to outdo each other in the care they show for each other.

Not needing wealth is more valuable than wealth itself.

Dress to protect our bodies, not to impress other people. Likewise, our housing should be functional.

We would also be better off...
if, instead of working hard to become wealthy, we trained ourselves to be satisfied with what we have
if, instead of seeking fame, we overcame our craving for the admiration of others
if, instead of spending time scheming to harm someone we envy, we spent that time overcoming our feelings of envy
if, instead of knocking ourselves out trying to become popular, we worked to maintain and improve our relationships with those we knew to be true friends.

The first step in transforming a society into one in which people live a good life is to teach people how to make their happiness depend as little as possible on their external circumstances.
The second step in transforming a society is to change people's external circumstances.

Genes tend to be transmitted when they make us do things that transmit genes.

Whenever you undertake an activity in which public failure is a possibility, you are likely to experience butterflies in your stomach. Since becoming a stoic, I have become a collector of insults. I have also become a collector of butterflies.

Invent a thing worth making, with a story worth telling, and a contribution worth talking about.

The best way to complain is to make things better.

% of the students that were late (told to rush across campus) didn't stop to help a homeless person, even though they were being tested on compassion. They were in a future-oriented mindset.

The price you pay for your addiction to praise will be an extreme vulnerability to the opinions of others.

If you don’t like to read, you haven’t found the right book.

% of cancer patients claim to be in better health than the average cancer patient.

Most people think they will regret foolish actions more than foolish inactions. But 90% of them are wrong. People in all walks of life seem to regret NOT having done things much more than they regret things they did. The most popular regrets are not going to college, not grasping profitable business opportunities, and not spending enough time with family and friends.

Life 1.0 (biological stage): evolves its hardware and software
Life 2.0 (cultural stage): evolves its hardware, designs much of its software
Life 3.0 (technological stage): designs its hardware and software

You’re probably not an ant hater who steps on ants out of malice, but if you’re in charge of a hydroelectric green energy project and there’s an anthill in the region to be flooded, too bad for the ants. The beneficial-AI movement wants to avoid placing humanity in the position of those ants.

Digital Athens:
The reason that the Athenian citizens of antiquity had lives of leisure where they could enjoy democracy, art and games was mainly that they had slaves to do much of the work.
But why not replace the slaves with AI-powered robots?

Don’t be the radiologist who analyzes the medical images and gets replaced by IBM’s Watson, but the doctor who orders the radiology analysis, discusses the results with the patient, and decides on the treatment plan.

During the Industrial Revolution, we started figuring out how to replace our muscles with machines, and people shifted into better-paying jobs where they used their minds more.
Now we’re gradually figuring out how to replace our minds by machines. If we ultimately succeed in this, then what jobs are left for us?

If we don’t know what we want, we’re unlikely to get it.

There are computer tournaments in so-called losing chess.

A human-extinction scenario that some people may feel better about: viewing the AI as our descendants.

Life has the potential to flourish for billions of years, throughout the cosmos.

Unambitious civilizations simply become cosmically irrelevant.
Almost all life that exists will be ambitious life.

This is the Second law of Thermodynamics which says that Entropy(Randomness) of an isolated system will increase over time.
Simply because the states possible for “Disordered” are orders of magnitude more numerous than “Ordered” states.

nd Law of Thermodynamics : It says “In a closed system, Entropy will always increase with time.”In other words:“If you see the randomness increasing(in a closed system), you’ll know that time is moving forward.” (This is our best guess of what the flow of time is)

Heat Death : In the language of physics, this is when the universe reaches thermodynamic equilibrium (maximum entropy). Here the Entropy of system has reached it’s maximum value, so no more “change in entropy”.

Free energy is (Internal energy minus energy which cannot be used to perform work) .
Free energy means that this energy is available in the form of useful work.

If a living organism dies, its entropy also starts to rise, and before long, the arrangement of its particles tends to get much less organized.

The second law of thermodynamics has a life loophole: although the total entropy must increase, it’s allowed to decrease in some places as long as it increases even more elsewhere.
So life maintains or increases its complexity by making its environment messier.

Vortices in turbulent fluids can make copies of themselves, and clusters of microspheres can coax nearby spheres into forming identical clusters.
At some point, a particular arrangement of particles got so good at copying itself that it could do so almost indefinitely by extracting energy and raw materials from its environment.
We call such a particle arrangement life.

Feelings of hunger and thirst protect us from starvation and dehydration, feelings of pain protect us from damaging our bodies, feelings of lust make us procreate, feelings of love and compassion make us help other carriers of our genes and those who help them and so on.

If you’d been observing Earth’s atoms since our planet formed, you’d have noticed three stages of goal-oriented behavior:
1. All matter seemed focused on dissipation (entropy increase).
2. Some of the matter came alive and instead focused on replication and subgoals of that.
3. A rapidly growing fraction of matter was rearranged by living organisms to help accomplish their goals.

A fast-forward replay of our 13.8-billion-year cosmic history:
1. Matter seemingly intent on maximizing its dissipation
2. Primitive life seemingly trying to maximize its replication
3. Humans pursuing not replication but goals related to pleasure, curiosity, compassion and other feelings that they’d evolved to help them replicate
4. Machines built to help humans pursue their human goals

Many arguments generate more heat than light.

nature as “a book written in the language of mathematics.”

Consciousness is the way that information feels when it’s processed in certain ways.
It must be substrate-independent; it’s only the structure of the information processing that matters, not the structure of the matter doing the information processing.

When people ask about the meaning of life as if it were the job of our cosmos to give meaning to our existence, they’re getting it backward.
It’s not our Universe giving meaning to conscious beings, but conscious beings giving meaning to our Universe.

Contrast sapience (the ability to think intelligently) with sentience (the ability to subjectively experience qualia).
Humans have built our identity on being Homo sapiens.
I suggest that we rebrand ourselves as Homo sentiens.

Your outcomes are a lagging measure of your habits.

Bamboo can barely be seen for the first five years as it builds extensive root systems underground before exploding ninety feet into the air within six weeks.

Goals are good for setting a direction, but systems are best for making progress.

How to Create a Good Habit:
1 (Cue): Make it obvious
2 (Craving): Make it attractive
3 (Response): Make it easy
4 (Reward): Make it satisfying

How to Break a Bad Habit:
1 (Cue): Make it invisible
2 (Craving): Make it unattractive
3 (Response): Make it difficult
4 (Reward): Make it unsatisfying

Many people think they lack motivation when what they really lack is clarity.

When I want to buy something over $100, I will wait twenty-four hours before purchasing.

Join a culture where your desired behavior is the normal behavior.
Surround yourself with people who have the habits you want to have.

Reframe your habits to highlight their benefits rather than their drawbacks.
Instead of telling yourself “I need to go run in the morning,” say “It’s time to build endurance and get fast.”

Master the habit of showing up.

If you show up at the gym five days in a row - even if it’s just for two minutes - you are casting votes for your new identity.
You’re becoming the type of person who doesn’t miss workouts.

Don’t break the chain of creating every day and you will end up with an impressive portfolio.

It’s easy to train when you feel good, but it’s crucial to show up when you don’t feel like it - even if you do less than you hope.

Work on tasks of just manageable difficulty.
The human brain loves a challenge, but only if it is within an optimal zone of difficulty : roughly 4 percent beyond your current ability.

Happiness is simply the absence of desire.

We can only be rational and logical after we have been emotional.

Self-control requires you to release a desire rather than satisfy it.

He dreams of becoming a novelist, but he never completes his work. He says his job keeps him too busy, and he can never find enough time.
No! It’s actually that he wants to leave the possibility of “I can do it if I try” open.
He doesn’t want to face the reality that he might produce an inferior piece of writing and face rejection. He wants to live inside the realm of possibilities.

You say fear is stopping you from doing what you want.
If I did cure your fear, and nothing in your situation changed at all, you’d probably say, ‘Give me back my fear!’

When one can think, “Whenever I am with this person, I can behave very freely”, one can really feel love.

“There is no God, but don’t tell that to my servant, lest he murder me at night.” – Voltaire

Just as when two clashing musical notes played together force a piece of music forward, so discord in our thoughts, ideas and values compel us to think, re-evaluate and criticize. Consistency is the playground of dull minds.

Stop not only the pursuit of external achievements, but also the pursuit of inner feelings.

Plan for success. Prepare for failure.

Joy prefers to arrive quietly and alone elsewhere, unceremoniously and unannounced. Meanwhile, you search for happiness in distractions.

A way of living can come from due thought rather than a passive immersion in the tangles of everyday distractions.

Schopenhauer’s ideal is to be wealthy enough to have expansive free time and the intellectual capabilities to fill it with contemplation and activity in the service of mankind.

Use your intellect to rise above your instincts.

Learn from the qualities you like in someone.
Develop it in yourself.
Recognize it in others.

Train yourself to feel satisfied with what comes more easily. That way, you are far more likely to reach a point of relatively undisturbed happy contentment. Everything you need is easy to procure, while the things you desire but don’t need are more difficult to obtain.

If you were sure that you could get by happily enough without this relationship, it’s easier to be less demanding and enjoy what the other person chooses to give.

Express your feelings to those you love now while you can, to never take them for granted.

You need to practice. If you don’t do something for a long time, it is difficult to then do it when you need to. Get ahead of the game. Make provision for negative events before they arise.

The problem is not the nastiness of the online comments; it is the fact that you are choosing to read them.

We are not here to judge another culture, but to learn about it.

The tourist takes his culture with him; the traveler leaves his behind. To travel is to discover that everyone is wrong about other countries.

Those who like to feel they are always right should stay at home.

It is not “Who do I want to be in life?” but “What is it that I want to accomplish in life?”

All of us waste precious life doing things we don’t like, to prove ourselves to people we don’t respect, and to get things we don’t want.

Knowing exactly where I wanted to end up freed me totally to improvise how to get there.

The things we’re most scared to let go of are exactly the ones we most need to relinquish.

“How have you been treating yourself?”

Each day, I try to take care of the six core needs:
1. physical, by surfing and eating healthily
2. Emotional, by allowing myself to experience and express feelings
3. Social, by spending time with growth-minded friends
4. Intellectual, by reading literature, listening to lectures, and, most importantly, simply listening more
5. Spiritual, through transcendental meditation
6. Sexual

You can’t have a relationship with someone hoping they’ll change. You have to be willing to commit to them as they are, with no expectations.

You can’t change a person unless they’re in diapers.

What does success mean to me? Have you ever asked yourself the question? Have you actually written down your answer?

Everything starts with sales. Nothing matters until you sell something. Nothing. You can vision cast, dream board, but there is no business until a sale happens. A sale tells you if you even have a business.

Whereas before I had always thought of sales as a way to get something, I could now see it as a tool for giving. Sales isn’t about selling at all. Stop selling. Help instead.

Effective sales is about finding a perceived need and helping someone fulfill it. If the customer doesn’t perceive the need, there is no need. The misguided drive to “create” a need is why we see so much chest-beating, egocentric marketing out there. It’s obnoxious, exhausting, and what’s worse, it’s ineffective.

You can’t hire enthusiasm. You need to hire evidence. Recruit people who already have, by evidence. This means being extremely rational and pragmatic. Hire evidence, not hope.

Great employees can set you free. Free from the things you aren’t good at. Free from the things you hate. Free from the daily “emergencies” and decisions that shouldn’t consume your days, but always seem to.

Hire ahead of your growth. Hire to conquer new frontiers. Hire to launch new initiatives. But don’t hire to put out a fire.

As CEO, the most important thing I manage is myself.

Whatever you are doing in your business right now, your goal really is to find a way to quit it. You need to stop doing almost everything you do at the office. Be a quitter. Get enough sales going so you can quit taking out the trash and hire someone else to do it. Get more sales going, then quit doing the accounting. Hire a specialist to do it. Get more sales going and quit doing customer service, too. You want to go from everything to nothing - except leading.

If you have more than three priorities, you don’t have any.

“Why do you do what you do?” I was quick to respond, “Impact. To positively impact people’s lives and futures.” A: “Then measure that.”

The greatest athletes in the world hire the most expensive coaches, consultants, and advisors. The greatest companies do the same.

We must get our own shit in order before we’re able to truly love others. We must love others in order to grow. We must grow to experience the full richness of life.

There are no new fundamentals. Truth is not new. It’s old.

The (Complete) Formula for Getting Lucky:
Preparation (personal growth)
+ Attitude (belief/mindset)
+ Opportunity (a good thing coming your way)
+ Action (doing something about it)
= Luck

Top people have very clear goals. They know who they are and they know what they want. They write it down and they make plans for its accomplishment. Unsuccessful people carry their goals around in their head like marbles rattling around in a can.

Make sure you’re not spending three hours with a three-minute person.

Who can I meet who can positively influence me? Let their glow rub off on you. Befriend the person you think is the biggest, baddest, most successful person in your field.

Don't grab for entertainment the minute we feel a slight edge of boredom coming on. Practice not immediately filling up space just because there’s a gap.

The reason that we’re here in this world at all is to study ourselves.

A Zen teacher who runs a project for the homeless said he doesn’t really do this work to help others; he does it because he feels that moving into the areas of society that he had rejected is the same as working with the parts of himself that he had rejected.

Don’t set out to save the world. Set out to wonder how other people are doing and to reflect on how our actions affect other people’s hearts.

If you sit still, you’ll see something. If you’re very quiet, you’ll hear something.

Intellectually he knew all about compassion, but when he saw a filthy, lice-infested dog, he looked away.

No opinion without risk.

Consistently post bits and pieces of your work, your ideas, and what you’re learning online. Instead of wasting your time “networking”, take advantage of the network.

Thinking that we have ample time to do things later is the greatest myth, the greatest hang-up, and the greatest poison.

How does one schedule an event where the Japanese will turn up 10 minutes early, the Germans and the Swiss on time, the Americans and British a bit late, the French after them and the Brazilians and Indians arriving an hour after the party was due to end?

Every country gets the government it deserves.

If tired, go to the gym for some exertion instead of resting.

Many wreck their reputations merely by trying to defend it.

It is only when you don’t care about your reputation that you tend to have a good one.

When you starve yourself of food, it is the bad proteins that are broken down first and recycled by your own body - a process called autophagy.

If I have “nothing to lose” then it is all gain and I am antifragile. If you have less to lose than to gain, more upside than downside, then you like volatility and you are also antifragile.

Talk to either undergraduate students, cab drivers, and gardeners or the highest caliber scholars; never to middling-but-career-conscious academics.

“F*** you money” - a sum large enough to get most, if not all, of the advantages of wealth (the most important one being independence and the ability to only occupy your mind with matters that interest you) but not its side effects, such as having to attend a black-tie charity event.

Activity strips things to their simplest possible model.

It is the negative that’s used by the pros, those selected by evolution: chess grandmasters usually win by not losing; people become rich by not going bust.

Obvious decisions (robust to error) require no more than a single reason.

A city should be devoted to pedestrians.

What Mother Nature does is rigorous until proven otherwise; what humans and science do is flawed until proven otherwise. Overriding nature requires some very convincing justification on our part.

Many people waste time and energy trying to make connections instead of getting good at what they do, when being good at things is the only thing that earns you clout or connections.

“Scenius”: great ideas are often birthed by a group of creative individuals - artists, curators, thinkers, theorists, and other tastemakers - who make up an “ecology of talent.”

If your work isn’t online, it doesn’t exist.

Don’t share absolutely everything. Put something out there because you think it might be helpful or entertaining.

Avoidance of embarrassment is a form of suicide.

Anyone who isn’t embarrassed of who they were last year probably isn’t learning enough.

We don’t make movies to make money, we make money to make more movies.

Remember the MED. Less is more.

The last repetition, the point of failure, is the rep that matters. The rest of the repetitions are just a warm-up for that moment.

Do as little as needed, not as much as possible.

Examine unpleasantness to death.

Handle desire in the following manner: Notice the thought or sensation as it arises. Notice the mental state of desire that accompanies it as a separate thing. Notice the exact extent or degree of that desire. Then notice how long it lasts and when it finally disappears. When you have done that, return your attention to breathing.

Keep your mindfulness on the breath until something else steps in and pulls your attention away. When you feel that happening, don’t fight it. Let your attention flow naturally over to the distraction, and keep it there until the distraction evaporates. Then return to breathing.

If you are remembering your second-grade teacher, that is memory. When you then become aware that you are remembering your second-grade teacher that is mindfulness. If you then conceptualize the process and say to yourself, “Oh, I am remembering,” that is thinking.

The most important moment in meditation is the instant you leave the cushion.

When things get bad, good people have to stand up. That means all of us. The best way to reduce anxiety in times like this is to start thinking about what you can do for other people.

"If I am not for myself, who will be for me? And being for myself, what am I? And if not now, when?"

save your energy for things that matter AND that you have control over.

When I get a little money I buy books; and if any is left I buy food and clothes.” —Erasmus

The problem is getting the flywheel to spin at a set speed - and to get to that point takes as much concentration and effort as you can manage.

You really need to prioritize in life, figuring out in what order you should divide up your time and energy. If you don’t get that sort of system set by a certain age, you’ll lack focus and your life will be out of balance.

The most important thing we ever learn at school is the fact that the most important things can’t be learned at school.

I have only a few reasons to keep on running, and a truckload of them to quit. All I can do is keep those few reasons nicely polished.

If they’re healthy, women don’t want boys. They want men. They want someone to contend with; someone to grapple with. If they’re tough, they want someone tougher. If they’re smart, they want someone smarter.

Too many takers and not enough makers will plunge a society into ruin

The stock market is a device to transfer money from the impatient to the patient.

Always be excited about the possibilities. Never be entitled to them.

"[Love] is a verb.

People who don’t seem to care how they dress or look are robust or antifragile. People who have to wear suits and ties and worry about a bad reputation are fragile.

“Some things benefit from shocks; they thrive and grow when exposed to volatility, randomness, disorder, and stressors and love adventure, risk, and uncertainty. Yet, in spite of the ubiquity of the phenomenon, there is no word for the exact opposite of fragile. Let us call it antifragile. Antifragility is beyond resilience or robustness. The resilient resists shocks and stays the same; the antifragile gets better.”

We thought aging causes bone degradation, but it seems that bone degradation causes aging.

the cure to procrastination on the job is not to force yourself to create systems that fix it, rather, to find an occupation where you do not have to fight your impulses and where you do not procrastinate.

“Do crazy things (break furniture once in a while), like the Greeks during the later stages of a drinking symposium, and stay “rational” in larger decisions. Trashy gossip magazines and classics or sophisticated works; never middlebrow stuff. Talk to either undergraduate students, cab drivers, and gardeners or the highest caliber scholars; never to middling-but-career-conscious academics. If you dislike someone, leave him alone or eliminate him; don’t attack him verbally.”

“If true wealth consists in worriless sleeping, clear conscience, reciprocal gratitude, absence of envy, good appetite, muscle strength, physical energy, frequent laughs, no meals alone, no gym class, some physical labor (or hobby), good bowel movements, no meeting rooms, and periodic surprises, then it is largely subtractive (elimination of iatrogenics).”

Watch what people do, not what they say.

Many researchers on happiness are earning more than $70,000 a year despite their own research saying it won’t make them any happier.

Something being marketed is necessarily inferior, otherwise it would not need to be aggressively marketed. Marketing beyond conveying information is insecurity.

Wind extinguishes a candle and energizes fire.

“I derived the rule that what is called “healthy” is generally unhealthy, just as “social” networks are antisocial, and the “knowledge”-based economy is typically ignorant.”

People who spend their whole life travelling abroad end up having plenty of places where they can find hospitality but no real friendships.

Skill is more useful than knowledge, it’s what you’re able to do, not what you know, that sets you apart.

Focus. Feedback. Fix it.

Our favorite things in life surprisingly don’t cost any money.

When you grill someone on why they think certain ways, they frequently end up reverting to a form of “because X said so.”

Because X said so is not a way to explain your thinking.

We want to believe we’re chefs, but most of us are sitting in various degrees of cook-dom.

To be a chef: So if we want to think like a scientist more often in life, those are the three key objectives— to be humbler about what we know, more confident about what’s possible, and less afraid of things that don’t matter.

It is difficult to get a man to understand something when his salary depends on him not understanding it

Recognize your limits, how much you don’t know. Don’t try to be the smartest, just the least dumb.

Feynman: “The first principle is that you must not fool yourself, and you are the easiest person to fool”.

If you aren’t sure if you want to do something in the future, ask yourself if you would want to do it tomorrow.

Facts do not cease to exist because they are ignored.

Predicting rain doesn’t matter, building arks does.

“The formulation of a problem is often more essential than its solution, which may be merely matter of mathematical or experimental skill.” – Einstein

“If you get easily bored, it means that your BS detector is functioning properly; if you forget (some) things, it means that your mind knows how to filter; and if you feel sadness, it means that you are human.”

The most painful moments are uninteresting people trying hard to be interesting.”

Preoccupation with efficacy is the main obstacle to a poetic, noble, elegant, robust, and heroic life.

It seems that it is the most unsuccessful people who give the most advice.

The three most harmful addictions are heroin, carbohydrates, and a monthly salary.

Any book not worth rereading isn’t worth reading.

Only in recent history has “working hard” signaled pride rather than shame for lack of talent, finesse, and, mostly, sprezzatura.

sprezzatura - studied carelessness

It is very difficult to argue with salaried people that the simple can be important and the important can be simple.

“Wit seduces by signaling intelligence without nerdiness.”

They agree that chess training only improves chess skills but disagree that classroom training (almost) only improves classroom skills.

Bring the good news in trickles, the bad news in lumps.

The only definition of an alpha male: if you try to be an alpha male, you will never be one.

Injuries done to us by others tend to be acute; the self-inflicted ones tend to be chronic.

“Utopias of equality are biologically doomed, and the best that the amiable philosopher can hope for is an approximate equality of legal justice and educational opportunity. A society in which all potential abilities are allowed to develop and function will have a survival advantage in the competition of groups.”

men who can manage men manage the men who can manage only things, and the men who can manage money manage all.

When the group or a civilization declines, it is through no mystic limitation of a corporate life, but through the failure of its political or intellectual leaders to meet the challenges of change.”

“Our capacity for fretting is endless, and no matter how many difficulties we surmount, how many ideals we realize, we shall always find an excuse for being magnificently miserable; there is a stealthy pleasure in rejecting mankind or the universe as unworthy of our approval.”

Consider education not as the painful accumulation of facts and dates and reigns, nor merely the necessary preparation of the individual to earn his keep in the world, but as the transmission of our mental, moral, technical, and aesthetic heritage as fully as possible to as many as possible, for the enlargement of man’s understanding, control, embellishment, and enjoyment of life.

You don’t have to be rich and famous to be attractive, but you should display the qualities that show you have potential to be rich and famous, which is indicated by your social status and behavior, which is indicated by how you behave around others, how others behave around you, and how you treat yourself.

The more physical assertiveness you pursue a woman with, the more aroused she becomes, even if she wasn’t interested in you to begin with. Bold and aggressive pursuit can turn a woman on to the point where she comes around and wants to get to know you. (The pickup term for this is “sarging”)

How attractive a man is proportional to his True Confidence, simply, being less invested in other people’s perceptions of you than in your perception of yourself.

The way to build true confidence and become more attractive is to invest heavily in oneself, women are typically more attracted to men who are more invested in themselves than they are in them.

If you’re at the top of the food chain, you have no reason to be inhibited or to defer to others (unless you want to). If you’re at the bottom of the food chain, your entire life will revolve around the deferring to others.

Set very high standards and stick to them, don’t waste time with anyone who doesn’t meet those standards. This goes for casual sex and serious dating, know what you want and what you’ll put up with, and what you won’t. If someone isn’t meeting those standards, move on.

So the catch is that everything you say must be as authentic as possible. There’s no shortcut. There are no tricks. You say it because you mean it and mean it because you say it. The more nervous it makes you, the better, because it means you’re being authentic and making yourself vulnerable. How attractive you are is based on your confident behavior. Your confident behavior is based on how vulnerable you’re able to make yourself. And how vulnerable you’re able to make yourself is based on how honest you are to yourself and others.

Don’t try to “be cool” and “act like you’re not interested,” by honestly expressing your interest in dating someone, you shortcut the “investment paradox” and demonstrate both interest and confidence at the same time. If a guy weren’t fearless about being rejected, he wouldn’t have the confidence to honestly express his attraction to a woman. This is “True Honesty”.

Rejection is a good thing, it saves you time filtering them out later.

If you don’t find a woman attractive, don’t approach her. It’s not practice, it’s desperation.

The goal with neutral women is to take polarizing action that forces them to decide if they like you or not: touch them, ask them out, tease them, flirt with them, etc.

The goal with Neutral women is to get them to stop being neutral as soon as possible.

Mark’s Favorite question for neutral women: “What’s Your Favorite Thing in the World”?

And your ability to sort through each type of women and meet as many as possible will be determined by how fearless and bold you are when it comes to meeting women.”

Creating an attractive and enriching lifestyle. (Honest living)

Overcoming your fears and anxiety around women. (Honest action)

Mastering the expression of your emotions and communicating fluidly. (Honest communication)

Keep making it harder until you can walk up to women by telling them you think they’re attractive and asking them out on a date.

always err on the side of aggression.

“I think you’re beautiful, I’d like to take you on a date.” it’s one of the most powerful advice that works.

When in doubt on how to approach a woman, simply walk up and introduce yourself and explain to her that you wanted to meet her. I know this sounds drab and boring. But remember, it’s not about entertaining her; it’s about exuding confidence and genuine interest in her. During the day, I often prep the introduction by saying something like, “Excuse me, this is kind of random…” Also during the day, I usually tell them that I think they’re cute.

SMILE!

Take a stab at the answer instead of asking.

Break a date into 3 distinct chunks, don’t just go do one thing. At least one of the three things should have opportunities for touching and closeness:

Meet for coffee -> get ice cream down the street -> check out the big swing in the park -> shopping at quirky book store

Salsa class -> Drinks next door afterwards -> walk around neighborhood -> Your apartment

Interactive Improv comedy show -> Walk through the local park -> Dancing at a lounge near her place

If you think you can kiss her, you probably could have 10 minutes ago.

You have the right to work, but never to the fruit of work.

How to spend money to make yourself happy:

Investing in new experiences

Buying time for yourself

Investing in others

Despite the tremendous amounts of time he devotes to writing, playing with computers, listening to speed metal, Rollerblading, and pounding nails, he is a flawless husband, parent, neighbor, and all-around human being.

Life — for its own sake. — Realize the fact that you simply “live” and not “live for.”

What we are after is the ROOT and not the branches.

Truth is not to be found in a book. Furthermore, such a book merely presents a barrier to progress in your search for truth. Independent inquiry is needed in your search for truth, not dependence on anyone else’s view or a mere book.

The mean: add up all the values and divide by the quantity of values. The mode: the most common value. The median: the value in the middle of the sample. In normal distributions, the three will be near each other, but in irregular distributions (e.g. annual household income) you’ll get vastly different numbers for each.

You can, for instance, express exactly the same fact by calling it a one percent return on sales, a fifteen percent return on investment, a ten-million-dollar profit, an increase in profits of forty percent (compared with 1935– 39 average), or a decrease of sixty percent from last year.”

Most people fail in life simply because they major in minor things.

Most people overestimate what they can accomplish in a year— and underestimate what they can achieve in a decade!”

Decide what you want, 2) Take action, 3) Notice what’s working or not, and 4) Change your approach until you achieve what you want.”

The solution isn’t to be an asshole, but to find ways to provide the truth objectively.

SMARTCUTS

Oxymoron morons eating oxygen

WHEN ALL IS SAID AND DONE, the journey is the reward. There is nothing else. Reaching the end is, well, the end. If the egg must fall three feet without a crack, simply extend the trip to four.

The person receiving the EMO has to surrender and become a “pleasure victim,” and the person giving the EMO has to take full control and complete responsibility for the experience.

If you get too close to ejaculating, squeezing the tip of the penis, or pressing up right behind your balls, can delay the release.

The more we associate experience with cash value, the more we think that money is what we need to live. And the more we associate money with life, the more we convince ourselves that we’re too poor to buy our freedom. With this kind of mind-set, it’s no wonder so many Americans think extended overseas travel is the exclusive realm of students, counterculture dropouts, and the idle rich.

A man is rich,” he wrote in Walden, “in proportion to the number of things which he can afford to let alone.

Get the audience involved:

Ask for a show of hands

Quiz them with trivia

Give them a problem to solve

When you enforce a popular rule, you reengage everyone who supports that rule. You restore your power and earn the audience’s respect. So, don’t hesitate to cut off a blowhard, silence the guy on his cell phone, and interrupt the table having a private but distracting conversation. As long as you are polite and direct, you’ll be a hero.

Set ambitious goals before each workout and let those past victories carry you to new personal bests. If it’s a run or bike ride, include some time to do interval work and challenge yourself to beat your best mile split. Or simply maintain a maximum heart rate for a full minute, then two minutes. If you’re at home, focus on pull-ups or push-ups. Do as many as possible in two minutes. Then try to beat your best.

Whether you are running on a treadmill or doing a set of push-ups, get to the point where you are so tired and in pain that your mind is begging you to stop. Then push just 5 to 10 percent further.

There is no finish line, Goggins. There is no finish line.

The three components of happiness are something to do, someone to love, and something to look forward to.

When I listen to comments from elderly people who have been married fifty, sixty, or more years answering the inevitable question about “the secret to a successful marriage,” it seems to me that a high tolerance for boredom often heads the list.

And did you get what you wanted from this life, even so? I did. And what did you want? To call myself beloved, to feel myself beloved on the earth.

If you stick your head in the sand, it`s still not going away.

Keep the profits, transfer losses to taxpayers.

Tomorrow and plans for tomorrow can have no significance at all unless you are in full contact with the reality of the present, since it is in the present and only in the present that you live.

Faith is not clinging but letting go.

Matthew’s rule of thumb is to lift hard, lift heavy, get sufficient rest, and feed your body correctly.

The 4 Laws of Muscle Growth

Law #1: Muscles Grow Only if They’re Forced to

Law #2: Muscles Grow from Overload, Not Fatigue or “Pump”

Law #3: Muscles Grow Outside the Gym

Law #4: Muscles Grow Only if They’re Properly Fed

All logical arguments can be defeated by the simple refusal to reason logically.

there’s no such thing as inspiration, just a lack of distraction.

your brain is in the driver’s seat, and your consciousness is just along for the ride.

It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming; but who does actually strive to do the deeds; who knows great enthusiasms, the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat. – Theodore Roosevelt

The best life hack that anyone has ever told me is to listen to audio-books at 2x speed.

Creative work is not a selfish act or a bid for attention on the part of the actor. It’s a gift to the world and every being in it. Don’t cheat us of your contribution. Give us what you’ve got.”–Steven Pressfield

To everyone who is freaking out because they fear the noise and distraction of all the additional content on the Internet, you can relax. Quality is a tremendous filter. Cream always rises, my friends, no matter how many cups of coffee you pour.

It's the quality of the conversation and community that matters most. Not the numbers.

Clear the path for the people above you and you will eventually create a path for yourself.

If you don’t know how much you need, the default easily becomes: more.

Play for the name on the front of the jersey, he says, and they’ll remember the name on the back.

Judge yourself based on your own standards, and share credit where credit is due.

Make it a priority to make others look good.

Be able to identify the problem with the highest priority.

Relay the priorities to your team in a straightforward manner.

Establish the best solution, asking top teammates for assistance when possible.

Execute the solution, re-direct all efforts until the highest-priority issue is solved.

Repeat these steps with the remaining problems.

Acknowledge that priorities can change based on circumstances. Ensure that everyone is aware when this happens.

Don’t let tunnel vision on one priority mean that you fail to see other problems arising.

History is something that very few people have been doing while everyone else was ploughing fields and carrying water buckets.

I end up talking to her cute friend about my favorite subject—myself. For an hour.

Instead of maximizing exercise, limit inactivity.

Treat sugar like it’s a drug.

If you haven’t found love yet, put all your energy into it.

To get what you want out of life, all you really need to do is be honest about it, don’t be afraid to go for it, and have fun while you do it—and you’ll eventually get it.

Why do you do cartooning? To get what every male wants.

To fellow NRIs preaching shit from overseas – it’s a few of us who messed it up for India. So at least, shut up.

Don’t write checks with your mouth that your ass can’t cash.

Status without having to do much to get it

The rules your parents teach you to live by are very different than the rules the world actually runs by

Mopeds are like fat girls; they’re both fun to ride until your friends see you.

Most of the conventional wisdom is not only wrong, it’s a lie told to us by people who want to control us. It doesn’t help us, it helps them.

Red Shoe Diaries’

I refused to half-ass my shit.

I had to be rich enough to pay cash for the car. No loans, no financing, no debt.

Break em off

Tell beautiful women they are smart, and smart women they are beautiful.

Once you’ve given some, the best thing you can do is withhold the rest. Like a drug dealer. The first one is free, but the second … you gotta pay for that one.

Of course, my ignoring her only made her want me more. Insecure women are funny.

www.tuckermax.com/mantalk

It’s less about the precise details of how you party, and more about why you party: are you engaging your life, or escaping from it? “Beer and girls” guys engage their lives because they enjoy them. “Coke and hookers” guys escape from their lives because they hate them. That’s the essential difference.

That’s usually what happens when narcissists get confronted with a reality that differs from the one they’ve constructed in their mind.

Men socialize by insulting each other

Insulting dumb people is beneficial for overall good of mankind.

Reputations are made in times of crisis.

MC Yogi `Shanti`

Obsessed is just a word the lazy use to describe the dedicated.

“I come in peace. I didn’t bring artillery. But I’m pleading with you, with tears in my eyes: If you f**k with me, I’ll kill you all” – General Mattis

People should either be caressed or crushed. If you do them minor damage they will get their revenge; but if you cripple them there is nothing they can do. If you need to injure someone, do it in such a way that you do not have to fear their vengeance.

We are going to die, and that makes us the lucky ones. Most people are never going to die because they are never going to be born. The potential people who could have been here in my place but who will in fact never see the light of day outnumber the sand grains of Arabia. Certainly those unborn ghosts include greater poets than Keats, scientists greater than Newton. We know this because the set of possible people allowed by our DNA so massively exceeds the set of actual people. In the teeth of these stupefying odds it is you and I, in our ordinariness that are here. We privileged few, who won the lottery of birth against all odds, how dare we whine at our inevitable return to that prior state from which the vast majority have never stirred?” – Richard Dawkins

the stupid are cocksure and the intelligent are full of doubt.

Throw me to the wolves and I’ll come back leading the pack.

And then there are dumb artists who think they are above other humans just because they do art.

We are gods but for the wisdom.

All this time spent on caring for my heart. What about others?

We learn from history that man can never learn anything from history.

the things we valued a few months ago don’t actually matter.

Writing itself makes you realize where there are holes in things.

In one and the same meadow, the cow looks for grass, the dog for a hare, and the stork for a lizard.

Wealth is not about having a lot of money; it’s about having a lot of options.

Unless we know why someone made a decision, we can’t safely change it or conclude that they were wrong.

Do not mistake creatures of emotion with creatures of logic.

Listen for wisdom, and beauty, and for voices not shouting to be heard.

I hate to say this but yes, love is the only way out.

A sense of humor is high on my list of virtues, in interplay with humility and compassion and a capacity to change when that is the right thing to do. It’s one of those virtues that softens us for all the others.

“The world,” says physician Rachel Naomi Remen in an interview with Tippett, “is made up of stories; it is not made of up facts.”

He was on the hunt for truth and not necessarily to confirm some highly-loved idea.

Netflix series are just mind-numbing sedative.

Watching movies, listening music are not HOBBIES

Reading is not a hobby, just like breathing isn`t.

The best thing a human being can do is to help another human being know more.

Warren Buffett says, “I just sit in my office and read all day.”

But how you read matters, too.

You need to be critical and always thinking. You need to do the mental work required to hold an opinion.

We don’t read other people’s opinions. We want to get the facts, and then think.”

The more of the details of our daily life we can hand over to the effortless custody of automatism, the more our higher powers of mind will be set free for their own proper work.

I just show up in front of the computer. Show up, show up, show up, and after a while the muse shows up, too. If she doesn’t show up invited, eventually she just shows up.

we must make the goal conform to the individual, rather than make the individual conform to the goal.

As I see it then, the formula runs something like this: a man must choose a path which will let his ABILITIES function at maximum efficiency toward the gratification of his DESIRES.

In short, he has not dedicated his life to reaching a pre-defined goal, but he has rather chosen a way of life he KNOWS he will enjoy. The goal is absolutely secondary: it is the functioning toward the goal which is important.

beware of looking for goals: look for a way of life.

Amateurs believe that the world should work the way they want it to. Professionals realize that they have to work with the world as they find it. Amateurs are scared — scared to be vulnerable and honest with themselves. Professionals feel like they are capable of handling almost anything.

you’re not a failure until you start to assign blame.

[W]e can praise wisely, not praising intelligence or talent. That has failed. Don’t do that anymore. But praising the process that kids engage in: their effort, their strategies, their focus, their perseverance, their improvement. This process praise creates kids who are hardy and resilient.

Structures: Or Why Things Don’t Fall Down

a lot of times the question is harder than the answer. And if you can properly phrase the question, then the answer is the easy part.

To get what you want, deserve what you want. Trust, success, and admiration are earned.

You want to deliver to the world what you would buy if you were on the other end.

Bear it with a grin.

Love and admire the right people, alive or dead.

Be reliable. Unreliability can cancel out the other virtues.

I’m not entitled to have an opinion on this subject unless I can state the arguments against my position better than the people do who are supporting it. I think that only when I reach that stage am I qualified to speak.

If you want to persuade, appeal to interest not to reason.

You’ll be most successful where you’re most intensely interested.

The highest reach of civilization is a seamless system of trust among all parties concerned.

You don’t need a reason to leave. Wanting to leave is enough.

You cannot convince people to love you.

Most of social media is just envy porn.

Don’t aim at success. The more you aim at it and make it a target, the more you are going to miss it. For success, like happiness, cannot be pursued; it must ensue, and it only does so as the unintended side effect of one’s personal dedication to a cause greater than oneself or as the by-product of one’s surrender to a person other than oneself. Happiness must happen, and the same holds for success: you have to let it happen by not caring about it. I want you to listen to what your conscience commands you to do and go on to carry it out to the best of your knowledge. Then you will live to see that in the long-run—in the long-run, I say!—success will follow you precisely because you had forgotten to think about it”.

He who has a why to live for can bear almost any how

A society of courageous people willing to admit ignorance.

When a thousand people believe some made-up story for one month, that’s fake news. When a billion people believe it for a thousand years, that’s a religion, and we are admonished not to call it “fake news” in order not to hurt the feelings of the faithful (or incur their wrath).

We could only feel what the people in the photos felt while taking them.

The price you pay for your addiction to praise will be an extreme vulnerability

The best possible way to prepare for tomorrow is to concentrate with all your intelligence, all your enthusiasm, on doing today’s work superbly today. That is the only possible way you can prepare for the future.”

“People are not thinking about you and me or caring what is said about us. They are thinking about themselves—before breakfast, after breakfast, and right on until ten minutes past midnight. They would be a thousand times more concerned about a slight headache of their own than they would about the news of your death or mine.”

The ability to quickly master hard things. 2. The ability to produce at an elite level, in terms of both quality and speed

To simply wait and be bored has become a novel experience in modern life, but from the perspective of concentration training, it’s incredibly valuable.

The majority of your happiness is defined by your relationships.

The goal of time management is ultimately to improve those relationships.

much more of success than you realise is neither deserved nor earned.

Between stimulus and response comes a gap. If and how you choose to use that gap determines your fate.

Take on small, simple challenges like exercising, taking a cold shower or making your bed. Beating them will boost willpower more widely.

Only boring people get bored.

We can discover the meaning of life in three different ways: (1) by creating a work or doing a deed; (2) by experiencing something or encountering someone; and (3) by the attitude we take toward unavoidable suffering.”
– Viktor Frankl

If they can train you to do it, then eventually they will train a computer to do it.”

“If being ethical were profitable everybody would do it.”

If you can explain it to a kid, then you know it.

The flavor of life is on the edge.

The fundamental delusion — there is something out there that will make me happy.

If they are still boasting about fun during college days, they are losers.

Technology is applied science. Science is the study of nature. Mathematics is the language of nature. Philosophy is the root of mathematics. All tightly interrelated.

If you think it's you against the world, chances are it's really just you against yourself.

Everything feels so fine, and so fragile, and so shockingly worth saving.

Avoiding embarrassments is just cowardice.

To measure the quality of your life, simply do nothing, and see how it feels.

The happiest people in the world are the ones who:

love what they're doing

accept things that they can't change

find pleasure in doing things

continue to grow and evolve

practice humility

expect less

enjoy and appreciate little things in life

The intellectual world is populated by a collection of people who are much better at explaining than understanding.

Don’t intentionally antagonize or insult anyone.

I don’t need to play tough on the internet. My real life was tough enough.

A big part of adding value (if not the most important part) is NOT being an asshole.

The Closer You Are to the Truth, the More Silent You Become Inside.

We are in this situation because we didn't build enough, we couldn't build fast enough, we didn't value building enough.

When I see something clearly enough and understand it, the bad habit can dissolve by itself.

“The closer you are to the truth, the more silent you become inside.”

“Wisdom begets stoicism. Stoicism does not beget wisdom.”

Quality will beat quantity any day of the week.

Normalcy is a gift.

Don’t sweat the small stuff.

The secret is that everything is always on the line.

Anything that is worth doing is worth doing slowly, with love.

Specificity,” she says, “is a crucial ingredient.

Kill your pride before you lose your head.

Stop telling yourself a story—there is no grand narrative.

Leave your entitlement at the door.

The best way to get the attention and respect of exceptional people is to do exceptional work.

Treat the Earth well. It was not given to you by your parents, it was loaned to you by your children.

Create ridiculous standards and then savor the inevitable failure.

Ruthlessly avoid people playing victim cards.

Most of the topics are not worth having an opinion about.

We do not live to eat and make money. We eat and make money to be able to live. That is what life means and what life is for.

Entrepreneurship is a personal growth engine disguised as a business pursuit.

Being able to read is not impressive; what counts is what you read and what you do with this information.

And no one can alleviate my suffering except me.

Never change yourself for someone else. Change yourself, for yourself, with the support of someone else.

"Charming" is a set of behaviors that a specific type of person uses to get me to do something that I wouldn't do if they were being direct.

Charming feels cunning. Direct is better.

if they are hard on me, they are almost certainly at least that hard on themselves.

You are already perfect as you are, yet you can always be better.

There’s no there there.

There are decades where nothing happens, and there are weeks where decades happen.

the world needs right now is not a great savior, it needs billions of normal people doing small, ordinary, good things.

What gets attention is not always important. And what is important rarely gets attention.

Were we to be good travellers, we would know how to treat a walk to the shops as its own kind of precious adventure.

It is rare to pay any of this attention when one has larger ambitions in view.

There is immense skill and true nobility involved in bringing up a child to be reasonably independent and balanced; maintaining a good-enough relationship with a partner over many years despite areas of extreme difficulty; keeping a home in reasonable order; doing a not very exciting or well-paid job responsibly and cheerfully; listening properly to another person and, in general, not succumbing to madness or rage at the paradox and compromises involved in being alive.

There is just us, here, now, somewhere on the pale blue dot, doing our best, surrounded by unobtrusive beauty, with a too-often unknown need to rejoin the silence and reopen our minds to vastness – and, along the way, to start going to bed far earlier.

If they were truly serious about it, they would figure it out.

Freedom is freedom from the mind.

Any freedom that leads to the desire for more freedom is not freedom.

The people who have conquered anxiety are the ones who had a clear understanding of what it is and where it came from.

Know the face of anxiety, not run from it like a boogie man.

There’s no solving. It is simply the understanding: The solution to any problem lies in diving deep into the problem.

Even inspiring other people is hard because if they’re inspired, inspiration doesn’t last. It fades.

“There is no other” means that there’s no problem outside of yourself and that all conflict is self-conflict.

If someone’s intention is that “I wanted to inspire him,” that’s a problem. If the intention is that “I didn’t care to inspire him or not,” then that’s not a problem.

If you did not care whether you inspired or not, then you’d be free.

If someone called me a hippopotamus, I don’t care. It’s not real. But if someone says, “Oh, you’re trying to play a fake guru,” that might hurt because sometimes I am trying to do that. And so if it reveals something about me, some conflict and some pain that already existed, then it hurts.

“Do you really want to know? Are you the type of individual who really wants to know and understand where these things come from because you have a longing for getting over that for good?”

Like humility, it isn’t good to be humble. If humility is taught, its not genuine.

You become that which you are most consistently exposed to.

Escape the lukewarm middle and find the obsessive mates.

It’s about titrating out all that is not wanted and titrating all that is. It can very much be fine-tuned, like a buffet.

The very fact that you caught yourself doing it is enough. There’s no need to do anymore. When fire burns, as long as it’s allowed to burn, it’ll eventually burn out.

Never try to reel your mind in. Give it free reign. Your greatest weapon is the understanding and the awareness of where it’s going, not watching your thoughts like a mechanical automaton.

Truth is the understanding that the pursuit of all things in a human being’s life are motivated by pleasure.

The silly jokes you tell on Twitter hide your shame.

If you look around you at this very moment, what you will see is Air. This air is filled with Time and Space. This time and space are raw materials for your Art. There is nothing else to do. Why would you waste this time and space for idle chit chat, social events, empty laughter, and a “night on the town?” Have some respect for the hand that bore you. Have some reverence for the forces that created you.

The one who sells the most is the one who cares not to sell it.

The one who will never starve is the one who captivates the hearts of humans.

Captivating human hearts is not a flower that can grow in the soil of “sales presentations” and “marketing strategies.”

If the product that a company is selling requires a “convincing” of the customer, rather than creating an instant and dramatic emotional reaction within him, the company will struggle.

I only seek permanent things. I have no interest in temporary ones.

Ishq akele ji sakta hai, dost akele mar jate hai.

To train in such a way that winning just comes to you.

Engaging in any discussion with a societal man is a waste of valuable breath.

What it means is that within every discipline there are opinions and dogmas. And somewhere amidst the mass and the nonsensical rubble is the Holy Grail. The Truth that no man has ever found.

Here on earth live earth-dwelling humans. These earth-dwelling humans have become smitten with the sights and sounds that society has created on the outside. And they have become hypnotized by the sounds and feelings created by the Mind on the inside. This is the narrow alley within which the earth-dwelling beings live.

the problem is that human beings are eagles who have never been told they can fly. And, since a man has little hope but to become his environment, a human being who does anything at all is instantly leaps and bounds above the rest. But this does not make him great.

A thing is only possible if a question is seriously asked.

The thing that a human being is a legend at, is precisely the thing that he knows not how he does it.

If you would not have a man flinch when the crisis comes, train him before it comes.

The limited man is inextricably tied to the belief that it is Effort that makes a man what he is.　While the man who seeks the ultimate is either convinced of, or is willing to seriously entertain, the fact that it is Understanding that makes a man what he is.

He created clocks not to keep track of time but to give himself 24 hours for an activity that requires half an hour.

Patience is Clever Procrastination

“You do not need to fix anything, you need to see everything”

“I don’t know why in society, there has to be music wherever you go.

You can sell people on doing business with you on your terms, as long as they know what’s in it for them.

Brain farts

There is no greatness that is not at peace

Not the size of dog in fight, but the size of fight in dog.

We may be smart but definitely not self-made.

In it for the long haul.

Meditation is not for gaining superpowers, it is for noticing how fucked up our mind is.

A calm mind, a fit body and a house full of love.

Lucks:

Blind luck

Luck from hustling

Luck from preparation

Luck from unique character

Signals is what they do, noise what they say, like and share.

It’s okay to shoot holes in things as long as you come up with a solution.

Either lead, follow, or get out of the way.

If one day, my words are against science, choose science”

My contempt is the thing I'm afraid to feel in myself.

I never ask, "How can I help?" It puts the burden on the person I'm trying to help. Instead, I offer something specific I know the person wants, or say "I'd love to help you any way I can. Just ask for what you need."

It’s actually small compliments that stand out.

No tree tries to improve itself. No cloud tries to better itself.

Effort has become one of the many gods that humans now worship.

Once one is trained to overcome involuntary thought, he then acquires the superhuman capability of thinking only when he wishes.

Nature was intelligent in keeping one’s heart and intestines out of a human’s control. For if it were under his control, he would spend 24 hours of every day learning “best practices” and the “latest techniques” for how to pump his heart and which hand to hold it in.

Lives transform through a direct examination of the True Source from which these problems arise.

Understand this Truth: The reason it takes 15 years to become World Class at something is because for 14 of those years you were doing it all wrong. But if a person could know Exactly and Precisely the things to know, and discard all the rest, he could become World Class in a year!

“effort” is a complete myth

If I am able to leave home and move to the Himalayas and say goodbye. Then I am unattached and free.

Human beings are birds who are constantly given instructions to flap their wings in hopes that they might hover a few inches above the ground.

If it doesn’t require effort to bring about anger, then how can it require effort to rid oneself of it?

How should we spend our life: Seeing. Seeing. Seeing

Altruism is a farce. There is no “other.”

To make one’s life a work of the highest art is the ultimate achievement.

“What do you want to avoid?” he asks. “Such an easy answer: sloth and unreliability. If you’re unreliable it doesn’t matter what your virtues are.

“kill the company” exercise

We should be choosing what we want to keep, not what we want to get rid of.

The reality is, the very best are usually great at many things because they translate mastery from one category to another.

Being intentional about the last day of your vacation. Be intentional about endings.

See. Create. Then see. Then create. The seeing is for Understanding. The creating is for immersion.

As an object approaches the speed of light, its mass rises ever more quickly, so it takes more and more energy to speed it up further. It can in fact never reach the speed of light, because by then its mass would have become infinite, and by the equivalence of mass and energy, it would have taken an infinite amount of energy to get it there. For this reason, any normal object is forever confined by relativity to move at speeds slower than the speed of light. Only light, or other waves that have no intrinsic mass, can move at the speed of light.

The dread of doing a task uses up more time and energy than doing the task itself.

The young writer who has to wait tables to pay the bills, in spite of her writing appearing in all the cool and hip magazines... who dreams of one day not having her life divided so harshly. Well, over time the “harshly” bit might go away, but not the “divided.” This tense duality will always play center stage. It will never be transcended. And nobody is immune. Not the struggling waiter, nor the movie star. As soon as you accept this, I mean really accept this, for some reason your career starts moving ahead faster.

Don`t confuse worldly rewards with spiritual rewards

You didn’t go in there, asking the editor to give you power. You went in there and politely informed the editor that you already have the power. That’s what being “ready” means.

A person’s face always reflects their personality, and if anything, calli makes that clearer. You know that saying, that after a certain age, you’re responsible for your face? With calli, you really appreciate how true that is.

Some faces just look really bland, especially young, conventionally pretty ones.

Without their physical beauty, those faces are just boring. But faces that are full of personality look as good as they ever did, maybe even better. It’s like you are seeing something more essential about them.

Drop the Consumption-Only Mindset: School teaches us to be passive. Sit back, listen, take notes, repeat what the teacher said on the test. But the Internet rewards creators. Have a bias for action. Then publish your best work online so you can create your own serendipity.

Ultimately, you should aim to become the only person who does what you do.

Injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere

The salaryman/employer relationship is best characterized as “You swear yourself to us, body and soul, and in return we will isolate you from all risks.”

Who have either perfected the skill of liking karaoke and golf or seeming to like karaoke and golf when invited out by colleagues?

Appreciate the tulip because it’s there, not because you’re there.

A Buddhist approach is to separate without being angry and vindictive. Anger is a form of ignorance of the other person’s perspective.

Baker’s Dozen: The key to good hospitality is to delight your guests with an unexpected gift.

service to mankind is utter selfishness.

nothing to protect, no following to satisfy, no interest in respectability.

Tell the world what you want. Advertise your goals by painting a picture of your ideal future.The world is a very malleable place. If you know what you want, and you go for it with maximum energy and drive and passion, the world will often reconfigure itself around you much more quickly and easily than you would think

If you have no capacity for violence then you are a healthy productive citizen: a sheep. If you have a capacity for violence, and no empathy for your fellow citizens, then you are a wolf. But what if you have a capacity for violence, and a deep love for your fellow citizens? Then you are a sheepdog, a warrior, someone who can walk into the heart of darkness and walk out unscathed.

The tragedy is workers and middle class households cannot consume enough of what they produce

Write about what you don't know about what you know.

how it could be possible that from our own point of view we’re so nice, and we’re so lovable, and we’re so cute, and so sensitive, and yet from the point of view of people who are weak and powerless we are an implacable, vicious enemy.

Assume that you will receive no recognition for the work you do. Assume that nobody will care. Then, create it anyway.

It's about what you are going to create with the short amount of time you have left on this planet.

Writers block is when you have nothing to say, but somehow think you should. Don't be so hard on yourself. Go out into the world, experience life, and write when you have something to say.

If you have skills, you have value

If you have value, you can find a network

If you have a network, you can create your own income

Why wait for a pay raise when you can create your own?

Why wait for somebody else to save you when you can save yourself

Make a lot of money, be in great shape and have yourself a great gal or two, and have the freedom to enjoy it all. There are no rules, there are only laws. Follow the laws and break the rules.

most polite excuse is just to say you have a rule.

Make before you manage.

If books aren’t playing a major role in your life, you are betraying life.

Your job is not to entertain her. Or to curate every minute of her life so that everything is meaningful and important and edifying. Your job is to be her husband. You job is to be there. To help her see that quality is what we make it, that it’s always within our reach if we so choose.

We cannot control our emotions. We can only be aware of them.

The key is to write down what you are passionate about and trust it will arrive in to a form later.

Antoninus was known to keep a strict diet, so he could spend less time exercising and more time serving the people of Rome.

remember: there’s nothing manly about rage.

If we avoid the losers, the winners take care of themselves.

Integrative thinkers don’t break a problem into independent pieces and work on each piece separately. They keep the entire problem firmly in mind while working on its individual parts.

The philosopher Nick Bostrom has provided a framework for thinking about this problem. He argues that we have to conclude one of three things is true. Either humans or human-like species become extinct before they achieve simulation-producing technology, or ‘post-human’ civilisations have little interest in making or using this technology, or we ourselves are probably part of a simulation.

The 5 biggest enemies - Sugar - Debt - Group think - Victim mentality - Short attention span.

Women who date men who are intelligent, decisive and smart, do not have a problem handing him the reigns. Such a man defers to his woman in her area of expertise. But that requires confidence and true masculinity. When two smart people partner, magic happens.

Wise men don't let their ego dismiss the counsel of women. Men who are winning often have a woman who acts as an Oracle or advisor. Your ego can be be the worst enemy that your nightmares couldn't compete with.

Assess people based solely on their actions as opposed to what they say.

In my experience, high-value men respect their woman’s wit, value her opinion, solicit her feedback and trust her perception skills. They do this, because being high-value means, in a woman, they chose well. Insecurity operates in the opposite.

If people fully understood the healing power of laughter and joy, shared with someone who offers you safety, security, love, and trust - they would choose better in a partner.

We riding all the way or not at all.

One man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter. Everyone’s got a story to tell.

Confidence is attractive, true. But only if You are attractive. All the confidence in the world won’t make an ugly man any more attractive. It only makes you wonder where the hell he got his unwarranted balls from.

May you be fortunate to end up kissing the right person "good night" at nights.

Stop sleeping on your gifts.

I work hard because I don’t want to be broke. I work hard because I don’t want to be fat. I work hard because I don’t want to be stupid. That’s the only motivation I’ll ever need.

Why do we tolerate behavior in our romantic relationships that we would never ever, ever tolerate in our friendships?

If you want to be a great writer, go live an interesting life

It’s better to assume the worst and be pleasantly surprised than hope for the best and be woefully disappointed.

If you are shopping for perfect relationship, you will be shopping till death.

A sturdy lass from countryside is worth a 100 city dolls.

What I noticed over the years is that people were starting to see science as entertainment and not as a tool or a lens to understand the world.

The whale does not love you. At best, it’s looking for a little entertainment on an otherwise humdrum day.

There are 18 year olds trying to be life coaches.

The market for entertainment will always be bigger than the market for information.

Same can be said about self-driving cars (and almost any new technology): what happens if they don't work well and what happens if they do work.

You get to tell me what I can and can't do when you start paying my bills.

"I don't like a man with muscles. I like a dad bod. I like to cuddle with some cushion" Bullshit. You're saying that because you're not good enough for a man with that physique. Don't make your failure a virtue. Hit me up when a dad bod calendar outsells a hot fireman calendar.

world-traveler-foodie psyop

Like it or not, you live in a world that encourages you to chase dopamine.

No agenda, no meeting.

Second, they must give their best shot at a solution in the form of a brief, written digest.

Work hard and go home.

don’t believe in the bullshitty notion of a “writing life.” I think there’s no such thing. I think the only time we are living a so-called “writer’s life” is when we are actually writing. When we are sitting down and pounding our heads in hopes of jiggling out of them the conclusion of a sentence. When I’m at the gym I’m not thinking “I am so less vain than all of these other people because I live the life of a writer.”

It is a discipline. Some days it’s hard, some days it goes a little easier.

The thing I would say to you is that all the stuff will sort out, and when it gets really sorted out you may even find yourself missing this period when everything was all up in the air, not yet knowable or known. And so I don’t think it’s a bad thing to feel this way as long as you can remain productive.

Aggressively kind

Cause the angry are better at expressing it and it’s time we change that

There are people here that work more on upgrading their phones than upgrading their minds.

You are not lazy, you just don’t love what you do.

Success is decided the day before, the weeks before, and the years before through training.

In a word: autonomy. Do I have autonomy over what I do and think? Am I free?

People with the most power try hard to hide it and often act like power doesn't exist. People with the least power tend to want to project it the most.

Every woman wants a man she can worship, whether she realizes it, or not.

Call me a misogynist, but if I have a flat stomach, my partner must have a flat stomach.

The Law of “Fuck Yes or No” states that, in dating and relationships, both parties must be a “fuck yes” about each other. Why? Because attractive, non-needy, high self-worth people don’t have time for people who they are not excited to be with and who are not excited to be with them.

You and your partner should be best friends. That’s all. Why do we tolerate behavior in our romantic relationships that we would never ever, ever tolerate in our friendships?

Find a woman who COMPLIMENTS you. Who's the least interested in Competing with you. Who Fundamentally ACCEPTS & REALISES in her soul... That men & women are completely different animals. Uncomplicate your Life from the Get-Go.

Let people know you agree with them. "You are right!" "That makes total sense, I agree" "I agree with you" Do not tell people that you disagree with them unless absolutely necessary.

Master the art of being agreeable. There is nothing in this world that will help you in your dealings with people more than the easy technique of being agreeable. Don't disagree unless you have to, and agree when you can.

Being well informed is not something to boast of.

Consumptionsim keeps you working hard enough at things that you aren’t passionate about for a short term dopamine rush. Produce something

The 4 levels of financial freedom.

Level 1: When your living expenses = your income. This is when you live paycheck to paycheck and have no other cash flows or investments.

Level 2: Includes more security. Your living expenses are still covered by your income but you have built an emergency fund (minimum 6 months of living expenses)

Level 3: You’re financially independent and debt free. You have investments that cover your cost of living.

Level 4: When your investments can buy anything you want. You can afford to do many things and it doesn’t hurt your pockets to do so. It is said that this magic number is making $400,000 a year.

To all the young people... Something happens around the time you turn 25. The entire world, friends, family, boys/girls, strangers - everyone stops caring about you. Nobody cares about your "potential", how cool you are or about you hopes & dreams. You either bring it or you become a joke.

To find the person you truly want, you've gotta be clear and specific about what you want, then start emphatically rejecting that which you don't. Otherwise, you get the same person over and over in different faces.

“Meditation is good for nothing. That's why you do it.”

Meditation is your birthright. It's your natural state. It requires no one, needs no thing, and has no technique. If something requires a guru, a mantra, or a teaching, it isn't universal, and it won't free you.

We say that we want peace of mind but what we really want is peace from mind.

No technique of the mind will free you from the mind.”

All chases, whether flow, drugs, beauty, thrills, orgasm, or devotion, are attempts to escape from the mind. Meditation is the direct path.

In an age of mental gluttony, meditation is fasting for the mind. Before paying a therapist to listen to you, listen to yourself. Before clearing your inbox, clear your mind.

Just as the sky rains when the clouds are heavy, and the body sleeps when the limbs are tired, meditation arrives when the mind is calm.

Prepare for meditation by sitting quietly in the morning, with eyes closed and back upright, in any comfortable position that will minimize movement.

Sixty minutes are easier than thirty, as it takes time for the mind to settle down. Sixty consecutive days are needed, just as it takes time for the body to go from unfit to fit.

Realize that at this moment, you are the only person in the world and there is no one to instruct you, praise you, or judge you.

Make no effort for or against anything. Whatever happens, happens. Surrender to yourself in the moment. Resist nothing and reject nothing, including the urge to resist and reject.

Meditation is not going through thoughts but rather letting thoughts go through you. The thought “I am meditating” is also a thought.

Meditation isn’t holy or spiritual or magical. It’s literally nothing.

No focus, no mantra, no dharma, no chakras, no Buddhas, no gurus, no gratitude, no scripture, no temple, no music, no gadgets, no apps are required. Some may be helpful, but eventually all will have to be left behind. Start simply, because that's where this all ends.

There are many meditation methods, but "no effort" is the universal method. Every creature at all times can choose to do nothing.

There's no need to get up to record a thought. If the idea was good, it’ll come back. If it doesn’t come back, it wasn’t that good.

Meditation is a single player game. There is no point in comparing to other meditators or to even your own previous meditations.

If meditation was easy, you’d do nothing else.

The point of meditation is not to become "a meditator" - in reality, there's no such thing. If it doesn’t bring lasting and effortless change, drop it, before it becomes another struggle and another chase.

There is nothing to say and nothing on offer. No one is taking you anywhere, selling you anything, or making you promises. Reading or talking about meditation will do nothing for you.

You cannot fail at meditation.

Ignore all advice on meditation, including this thread. “Meditation is good for nothing. That's why you do it.”

The closer you get to the truth, the more silent you become inside.

The ability to be content and at peace, by yourself, is freedom.

Buy the Best shoes and the  best bed, because you are either in one or other

Fast, lift, sprint, stretch, and meditate. Build, sell, write, create, invest, and own. Read, reflect, love, seek truth, and ignore society. Make these habits. Say no to everything else. Avoid debt, jail, addiction, disgrace, shortcuts, and media. Relax. Victory is assured.

Your darling babe is replaceable, there is no "the one", so take it easy with the "I can't live without him/her" crap. Be complete in yourself.

your college sweetheart is not one in a million, she's one in a hundred at best.

at a young age, you do not want comfort, you want your ass to be on fire so hot that it always keeps you up and running.

You will see a few friends of yours who get into "virtual marriage" style relationships off the bat, and in your more lonely moments, you might even be jealous of them. Don't be.

The people who have those over the top stuck together type of relationships are people who failed to develop an independent sense of self and are hiding from the world behind each other's backs. These people are neither strong nor formidable. They are mentally weak and break down the moment life hits them with anything unexpected.

Strong people always get support. They don't have to ask for it, it is given to them.

"College is supposed to be fun" is a huge myth pushed down on young people by unserious people. If you find college easy and fun, you are not pushing yourself hard enough.

Unlike money, which you can earn and burn, time is a one way street.

You never know when you might end up needing a favor out of someone, so even when you are angry or pissed, be nice and polite. Your relationships are your assets, so don't burn them for no reason.

Your parents want you to be safe, your friends want you to fail, and your girl just wants you to be stable. But very few people actually want you to be wildly successful.

it's fine to take advice, not fine to delegate decision making authority - the crown must be on your head, not your parent's, not your minster's, not your friend's

You are good enough as you are, but you can also be better.

If you got fired today and they brought in someone exceptional to replace you, what do you think they would do? Why aren’t you already doing that?

Remember that fitness is built one step at a time by small but daily actions.

Ghee by nature is lipolytic: It’s a fat which breaks down other fats. It mobilizes fats from stubborn fat areas of the body.

Don't be arrogant, entitled & bitchy. Don't whine, gripe & nag. Don't become a fat slob. Don't try to sabotage him. Cook him nice food. Show you appreciate him. Be gentle, and be sweet. And he'll love you. It's that simple really. Women often overthink & fail at the fundamentals.

World-class writers don’t have their best ideas by staring at the blank page in front of them. The more time Kendrick Lamar spends meeting people, traveling, exploring his old neighborhood, or talking to children, the better his music.

If you have writer’s block, you don’t have enough ammunition.

`My father has zero intellectual insecurities... It has never crossed his mind to be concerned that the world thinks he’s an idiot. He’s not in that game. So if he doesn’t understand something, he just asks you. He doesn’t care if he sounds foolish.`

Who is that person whom you call an artist? A man who is momentarily creative? To me he is not an artist. To me, the true artist is one who lives completely, harmoniously, who does not divide his art from living, whose very life is that expression, whether it be a picture, music or his behaviour, who has not divorced his expression on a canvas or in music or in stone from his daily conduct, daily living. That demands the highest intelligence and highest harmony. To me the true artist is the man who has that harmony... But all this demands that exquisite poise, that intensity of awareness and therefore his expression is not divorced from the daily continuity of living.’

‘Great artists and great writers may be creators, but we are not, we are mere spectators. We read vast numbers of books, listen to magnificent music, look at works of art, but we never directly experience the sublime, our experience is always through a poem, through a picture, through the personality of a saint. To sing we must have a song in our hearts, but having lost the song we pursue the singer. Without an intermediary we feel lost; but we must be lost before we can discover anything. Discovering is the beginning of creativeness; and without that creativeness, do what we may, there can be no peace or happiness for man.

Instead of merely depending on great artists, writers, and other creative persons, we should acknowledge our immense debt to them for awakening us from our spiritual slumber, and for making us aware that it is possible to be open to reality. And from there we need to move on.

A wise man once told me you will look back and regret 99% of your outbursts and think of them as your most childish moments.

If you aren’t afraid of the truth, then you’re nowhere near it.

How to clear your head: Take a pen and paper and write down everything that comes into your head - without censoring anything. Write as long as you like and get it all down on paper. At the end of the exercise, you'll feel a lot better. Not sure why it works, but it works.

The mentally weak – can be handled, physically weak – can be handled but emotionally weak – unpredictably dangerous.

Use the weekend to move closer toward your dream life vs. trying to escape your current life.

Creativity can never be forced. Creative ideas and solutions pop up in your mind randomly. Sometimes at your work desk. But often, they'll pop up while exercising or showering. Don't try too hard. As long as you have a true desire to grow through creativity, it will find you.

Do what you do, be what you be. But when loving, give it your all.

Entertaining shouldn’t be about showing off. It’s all about making people feel comfortable and setting a stage for everyone to have a good time, make new friends, and have stimulating conversations.

I try to phrase criticism in the nicest possible way, but I also never lie.

The problem is when you think that you deserve the perks of freedom--or worse--when you don't even know that you aren't free.

If all of your friends are unambitious, demotivating losers who waste valuable time talking about trivial issues that don't matter, or bitching about uncontrollable factors then: YES, you need a new peer group.

You have to keep a dozen of your favorite problems constantly present in your mind, although by and large they will lay in a dormant state. Every time you hear or read a new trick or a new result, test it against each of your twelve problems to see whether it helps. Every once in a while, there will be a hit, and people will say, 'How did he do it? He must be a genius!'

"Always be humble, do the right thing, listen to your elders" = Idiot

Your time is better spent championing good ideas than tearing down bad ones. Don't waste time explaining why bad ideas are bad. You are simply fanning the flame of ignorance and stupidity.

The best thing that can happen to a bad idea is that it is forgotten. The best thing that can happen to a good idea is that it is shared.

Feed the good ideas and let bad ideas die of starvation.

be kind, even if you are right.

If you want to build a ship, don't drum up the people to gather wood, divide the work, and give orders. Instead, teach them to yearn for the vast endless sea.

If you get a few amazing pillars of your Tripod of Stability — like your job, relationships, and house — you can afford to take massive risks in your life.

Life is hard. It is filled with hard facts and hard decisions.

Being in love or making art pushes someone towards a present-focus. Ambition pushes someone towards a future-focus.

The most talented

employees are temporary: they always end up doing their own thing.

The biggest imprisonment with success, and art, creation, and whatever it may be, is ownership. Whenever there’s ownership there’s building of your self image. You’re building a self image at the same time you’re building the company. And that self image is gonna pop sooner or later.

And the greatest athlete, the greatest individual in any sport or business allows the game to come to them. All things must come to you, you cannot be the chaser.

You want to see your way all the way to the end. You do not want to work your way all the way to the end.

I’m here to tell you that the primary culprit in your bad moods is a deficit in one of the big five: flexible schedule, imagination, sleep, diet, and exercise.

Success is straightforward. Do what you said you'd do. Every day. For a whole decade.

The majority doesn’t care, so the minority gets what it wants.

everything that is not forbidden by laws of nature is achievable, given the right knowledge.

Build something 100 people love, not something 1 million people kind of like.

Epicurus made this specific request of his patron because he knew that simple, ordinary pleasures, enjoyed in moderation, were actually the most enjoyable.

By pleasure we mean the absence of pain in the body and of trouble in the mind. It is not an unbroken succession of drinking-bouts and of merrymaking, not the satisfaction of lusts, not the enjoyment of the fish and other delicacies of a luxurious table, which produce a pleasant life; it is sober reasoning, searching out the motives of every choice and avoidance, and banishing those beliefs through which the greatest disturbances take possession of the soul.

be especially wary of celebrities offering advice in public forums: they probably pursued fame in an effort to fill an inner void, which tends not to work – so they are likely to be more troubled than you are.

If the work doesn’t require creativity, delegate it, automate it, or leave it.

Create for the creators. Tiktok, amazon,

Expressing creativity using the most basic, accessible methods is the hardest thing to do and the purest. The very best steak houses serve their filet on a plate with nothing else. Shi*ty franchises cover theirs in sauce and other stuff to distract you from the fact that you’re eating dog food.

We must get our own shit in order before we’re able to truly love others. We must love others in order to grow. We must grow to experience the full richness of life.

They simply decide they’re going to do it, and they get it done. They don’t second guess, they don’t stress, they just do it. They aren’t stronger. They aren’t smarter. They aren’t more gifted.

Making a difference is as simple as knocking on the door of your neighborhood school and asking the principal how you can help.

Wherever there’s another human being, there is an opportunity for kindness.

“waste no more time arguing what a good person should be. Be one.

You are where you are today because you stand on somebody’s shoulders.

He says that no matter how technologically advanced we become, people are still the most important thing.

The internet and social media have created a dangerous illusion that many of us have fallen for: We believe that talking online is socialization.

It’s always better to be wanted. Even if you don’t want to be around other people.

Think for yourself and figure out what’s true. That’s it. Ask yourself what’s true until you know.

Practice kindness all day to everyone and you will realise you are already in heaven.

PUSH PEOPLE UP.

You know you’re in a bad spot if you’re criticizing rather than creating.

And once you jump in the soup and you’re being bombarded from all sides and you live in confusion and you have no idea which way is up, if the obsession is there, then what happens is through messy process you find a way. You see light at the end of the tunnel. You forge a path through the jungle.

If we don’t discuss truth here, then what’s the point of having a conversation?

quite frankly, there isn’t enough time to go piecemeal.

The solution to a problem is never the solution. It’s always the problem. The definition of the problem is the key.

So in the case of anxiety, a person asks, “How do I get rid of anxiety?” The problem isn’t that they have anxiety. The problem is that their anxiety will never end as long as they look for a solution to it. “Well, if I don’t find a solution, then I’m always going to have anxiety.” That’s correct.

The solution is to go backwards. It’s to look at what actually is the anxiety. Put a name on it. When does it arise? What part of the body does it arise in? In what situations does it arise? Know the face of anxiety, not run from it like a boogie man.

There’s no solving. It is simply the understanding: The solution to any problem lies in diving deep into the problem.

“There is no other” means that there’s no problem outside of yourself and that all conflict is self-conflict. These things in which pain arises from a circumstance aren’t really caused by the circumstance. The circumstance does not cause pain, it reveals it. If someone’s intention is that “I wanted to inspire him,” that’s a problem. If the intention is that “I didn’t care to inspire him or not,” then that’s not a problem. If you did not care whether you inspired or not, then you’d be free.

One of the ways in which I know that I am finding truths out is that problem is solved for good. I don’t have to revisit that same problem again because that problem is solved for good. Both my internal state and my external state “improve.” They change. “Improve” is a big word, so it’s more “they change.” Internally, I’m quieter. Externally, my life is less complicated.

A human being becomes his environment and that is why it’s absolutely critical to savagely and surgically arrange one’s environment in a way that is in accordance with where he wants to go.

The “shoulds” and the “shouldn’ts” are pure poison. Never try to reel your mind in. Give it free reign. Your greatest weapon is the understanding and the awareness of where it’s going, not watching your thoughts like a mechanical automaton. It is just the understanding that you know where the mind is going and that you do see yourself doing this. That sight itself has already poked a hole in that behavior.

Everyone dives into the prescription. Everyone’s impetus for entering the game is the “should” and the “good” and the “bad” and the “should not.” That’s the impetus. The impetus has to be: Where do you want to go? Because the answer to that question will create the path.

Freedom comes from the understanding of where things come from, not the conscious attempt to end them.

Where there is sincerity and where there is seriousness, that is its own instrument of examination.

Anti-fragile : anything that has more upside than downside from random events shocks.

If you dislike someone, leave him alone or eliminate him; don’t attack him verbally.

Simply, the more options you have, the more freedom you have to respond to unforeseen circumstances, and the less fragile you are to sudden events.

You get rewarded for unique knowledge, not for effort. Effort is required to create unique knowledge.

If your product can genuinely help someone, you're doing them a service by selling to them. You don't have to be obnoxious. You can sell by being honest and straightforward.

There is no striving There is only Now. There is no working hard There is only Now. There is no food, drink, sleep, or talk. There is only Now. Your sweat, your work, your promises, your routines, your coaches Mean nothing. You mean nothing. There is only Now.

Jobs are awesome.. to create.

Work life harmony not work life balance

All your problems, disappointments, guilt, worries, miseries, pain, sorrow, apprehensions, and anxieties could disappear in an instant. But then, what would you do with your time?

If you have to explain yourself, your power is already in question.

traumatized in ways we’ll be explaining to our grandkids.

we are largely better at doing than we are at thinking, thanks to antifragility. I’d rather be dumb and antifragile than extremely smart and fragile, any time.

For my last job, I wrote my resignation letter before starting the new position, locked it up in a drawer, and felt free while I was there.

Radical truth and radical transparency in pursuit of excellent work and excellent relationships is the magic potion to success.

Besides being unfair, we pay a terrible economic price when people become liabilities rather than assets to society. For example, we find that the cost of getting a high school student through high school and into a job is less than the cost of not doing that.

If people could manage to find happiness and purpose and stillness amidst war, under the rule of tyrants, through plagues far worse than this one, what excuse do we have?

true pros are just indifferent. They don’t care because it’s a probabilistic outcome. That’s just part of the game and they’ll come back and they’ll probably be better the next day."

He argues that most people spend their time engaged in useless pursuits because of technological advances; he calls these "surrogate activities" wherein people strive toward artificial goals, including scientific work, consumption of entertainment, political activism and following sports teams

the system has to regulate human behavior closely in order to function

drastic changes to the system would not be implemented due to their disruption of the system.

The single largest beneficiary of remote work will be India. It has the largest population of English-speaking, STEM-trained talent in the world.

A 40-year-old will stop a stranger on the street and tell them to pull up their pants or remind a young woman she needs to smile more. An octogenarian and beyond just lets people do what they do.

The reality is, humans do have aggressive, violent, contradictory, emotional, irrational impulses. And we have to understand them if we want to rise above them.

love like an obsessive, insatiable and f*cking psychotic. If people find out, they should be grossed out by it.

Being able to see how something works is valuable. But only if you can change it.

Human beings are not hungry for Therapy Or Self-Improvement. They crave to sit before that One Human in the world who will allow them to say what they wish to say, Be as they wish to be and diminish them not With a Fix.

Love is giving someone the power to destroy you and trusting they won’t use it.

Live strategically, with a view from high. Avoid tactical hell, reacting to everything.

“I don’t spend my time pontificating about high-concept things; I spend my time solving engineering and manufacturing problems.”　Elon Musk

Yuval Noah Harari sold 12 million copies of Sapiens without adding any original research. He said: “I thought, 'this is so banal!' There is absolutely nothing there that is new. I’m not an archeologist. I’m not a primatologist. I mean, I did zero new research. . . It was really reading the kind of common knowledge and just presenting it in a new way.”

You don’t need your lover. You need to be loved. You don’t need your job. You need to feel secure. You don’t need to be beautiful, cool, or popular. You need to feel appreciated. Ultimately, what you need is you.

Choose the non-emotional response to any given situation and see how much easier your life becomes."

To love without knowing how to love wounds the person we love.

Let us dance and make love like the free people we are. Let us be a beacon to others - an example of what it means to use the luckiest lives to their fullest. Let us inspire others to achieve what we now take for granted.

Drop the past completely rather than trying to fix it

Their appetite for competition, their unwillingness to lose, and their embracing the challenge. And not just the challenge on competition day, which is a huge part, but the challenge of the training grind.

They all want to help. But your terrible way of asking is causing all the problems.

Because this is ultimately not a book about archery, but about zen, and the mastery of the soul.

“You want to know how to paint a perfect painting? It’s easy. Make yourself perfect and then just paint naturally. That’s the way all the experts do it.“

everything that is not forbidden by laws of nature is achievable, given the right knowledge.

Microsoft’s impact in the world, our success has to be fundamentally aligned with the success of our customers and the world around us. If we are not able to look them in the eye and say “Look, you are benefiting”, whether it’s a small business becoming more productive or a multinational becoming more competitive, or the public sector becoming more efficient, education outcomes, healthcare outcomes in the UK, or in India or anywhere else, if we can’t deliver that, I don’t think Microsoft should exist or any Big Tech company should exist.

Technology by itself sometimes is great, but it’s not the real end goal. The point is, how do we translate it? That’s where entrepreneurs play a role, the state plays a role and the broader society plays a role

"If you suddenly and unexpectedly feel joy, don’t hesitate. Give in to it.

whatever it is, don’t be afraid of its plenty.

Joy is not made to be a crumb."

Work that produces networks win.

Focus on building wealth, not money.

"So I stayed in the quant and trading businesses (I'm still there), but organized myself to do minimal but intense (and entertaining) work, focus only on the most technical aspects, never attend business "meetings," avoid the company of "achievers" and people in suits who don't read books, and take a sabbatical year for every three on average to fill up gaps in my scientific and philosophical culture. To slowly distill my single idea, I wanted to become a flâneur, a professional meditator, sit in cafés, lounge, unglued to desks and organization structures, sleep as long as I need, read voraciously, and not owe any explanation to anybody.

But what do I care? Well, let me tell you. I care about the fact that something I care about got into the hands of people who care about it.

Take a moment this week to look at your own spite and ask yourself what pain it's hiding from you. Can you face it?

you relax and find many ideas (that you already have) and follow a process to rapidly test them to find the right one

Instead of being widely-known, they are well-respected. As a result, they can meet the people they want to meet and build the businesses they want to build without the intrusiveness of celebrity. Though they have global influence on the Internet, they can lead normal lives because average people don’t know who they are.

The most important things are impossible to measure, but you should try to measure the most important things.

People who are bitter and cynical are just confessing they aren’t living the life they want. Don’t take it personally.

Focus on your mission or others will find ways to get you to focus on theirs.

Rest is essential, but during our periods of rest, we must think to ourselves that in resting we are renewing our energy to fulfill our commitment.

Once you learn how to FIND and LAND amazing jobs, you'll never be stuck in a bad one again.

happiness is in making things rather than in consuming them.

The pants have to match the shoe style and the shirt style matches the pants. Investment into the appropriate footwear signals that a man takes his style seriously enough to have it work for him.

Never let your perception of another person's success dictate how you feel about your own.

Sentiment changes, truth is eternal.

Never be overheard complaining...even to yourself.

Success is attaining your dream while helping others to benefit from that dream materializing.

We should spend our lives doing what we love while we can.

The more of the details of our daily life we can hand over to the effortless custody of automatism, the more our higher powers of mind will be set free for their own proper work.

The first step to being courageous is being willing to look foolish."

My desire to learn caught fire once adults stopped forcing me to sit in a classroom

"Planning and preparation are useful until they become a form of procrastination.

When a kid has a serious and productive interest in something, do anything possible to feed it. Be the perfect enabler.

Knowing how little you matter is very important for your mental health and happiness.

"Stop caring about impact and just be the best version of you possible - then you’ll naturally have an impact."

Let your actions dictate.

Poverty is passed on, middle class is passed on.

Just automate your investments, pick low cost funds, and get on with your Rich Life.

There is no over training, there is just under-rest.

Is my life exactly the way I want it to be? This is a dangerous question to ask. We are told that we can’t have everything. If you can’t have everything, then why are you living?

The ultimate parent doesn’t need to parent at all. His presence is enough. A certain level of wisdom through sincere self examination is needed. The child learns through association.

Where there is purity of love, there is no pain.

Any problem in a family between parent and child is the parent’s fault.

Only when the tide goes out do you discover who's been swimming naked.

Most things aren't worth it.

I'm not upset that you lied to me, I'm upset that from now on I can't believe you.

Life is a game. Irony is the more you can take things NOT seriously, the more you can play at full capacity. So lighten up.

Don’t be impressed by authorities.

It’s interesting to think how would we react if we detected a big asteroid coming our way.

“You can miss everything in life and still be content. It’s just society trying to guilt-trip you for not partaking in its grand marketing show.”

Awakening isn’t about achieving some permanent state of bliss. Awakening is the realization that this ordinary moment actually contains everything you’ve always wanted.

If you have any money left when you die, you worked too much. Having to throw out rotten produce at the end of the week means you bought too much food, and having to redistribute tons of assets in your will means you accumulated too much money.

Why is this the case? Because any time you put towards work is time you're not putting towards fun and especially memories. Even for someone who truly loves what they do, it's unlikely they would choose to work as hard or on the same things if they didn't feel the need to accumulate more resources. As I said, any time you're putting towards work is time you're not putting towards the more meaningful things. I love what I do. But would I rather write code & words all day, or hang out with my daughter and cook with my friends? Obviously the latter. Maybe 1-2 hours of writing a day and the rest socializing. I suspect most people would end up with a similar breakdown, with some creative outlet that may or may not be profitable and then most of their time on social or exciting activities. But I think given the option, we'd prefer a comfortable, and at times lavish life with less work, than a maximally extravagant life with twice the work hours. And we'd prefer to have the option to retire when we're 40 than to have to wait till we're 65.

We let money define us, rather than defining ourselves in a deeper way and expressing that quality through our money.

A question from Paul Allen, the co-founder of Microsoft:

"What should exist? To me, that's the most exciting question imaginable. What do we need that we don't have?"

Here's the full list of Rich Life areas:

Friends & family

Experiences & adventure

Health & fitness

Work

Hobbies & personal expression

Self-improvement

Giving

Spirituality

Anger is not impressive or tough‚ it's a mistake. It's weakness.

I want to spend as much of the time I have in my life with the people I love and care about, doing things that are nourishing and uplifting to us. I want to live close to the land, connected to nature, being as productive a part of both my social and physical ecosystem as I can be.

In essence, I want my life to promote life.

Honestly ask yourself: how much of the functioning of Western modernity right now aligns with that goal?

Sadly, very little.

The good life is the fruit of understanding, freedom from care, and effortless self-discipline.

Lao Tzu’s story simply says that if there is urgency, intensity in one’s life, then what might take eighty years can happen in one moment. If one’s understanding is intense, it can happen in one moment and without pure intelligence, it does not happen even in eighty years.

We must fight with all we have to achieve the very things we want to achieve. Just know that things are not going to get easier, you need to get harder!

What would be if there was NO problem to solve. Rest in that.

So what is rest? I think it’s when you take moments to break through this illusion. When you understand that you’re not defined by what you produce, and that the light of consciousness is enough. That love is not derived by being useful, but rather by being kind and compassionate. And when this realization is total, that’s when the mind is finally at rest.

Freedom comes from mastering the fundamentals.

If you’re starting a company, focus on delighting one customer.

We must make the goal conform to the individual, rather than make the individual conform to the goal.

The work of philosophy, the Stoics said, was to draw this outer concern inward, to learn how to care as much as possible for as many people as possible, to do as much good for them as possible.

Look for the helpers. You will always find people who are helping.

"You've got this one opportunity to fall in love with existence," he says. "So why not relax and enjoy your life?"

“Public speaking professionals say that you win or lose the battle to hold your audience in the first 30 seconds of a given presentation.”

Forgive, forgive, forgive. And then forgive again.

“Did I devote enough time to my family? Did I learn enough new things? Did I develop new friendships and deepen old ones? These would have been laughable to me when I was 25, but as I get older, they are much more meaningful.”

Do the people you care about love you back?

Progress is operations we can perform without thinking about them.

Animals become indifferent to their young as soon as their young can look after themselves, but human beings, owing to the length of infancy, find this difficult.

Don't ignore your dreams; don't work too much; say what you think; cultivate friendships; be happy.

all criticism is unmet needs

Four steps: choose a field, learn enough to get to the frontier, notice gaps, explore promising ones. This is how practically everyone who's done great work has done it, from painters to physicists.

In most cases the recipe for doing great work is simple: work hard on excitingly ambitious projects, and something good will come of it. Instead of making a plan and then executing it, you just try to preserve certain invariants.

Be the one who puts things out there rather than the one who sits back and offers sophisticated-sounding criticisms of them

Take as much risk as you can afford. In an efficient market, risk is proportionate to reward, so don't look for certainty, but for a bet with high expected value. If you're not failing occasionally, you're probably being too conservative.

Though conservatism is usually associated with the old, it's the young who tend to make this mistake. Inexperience makes them fear risk, but it's when you're young that you can afford the most.

Use the advantages of youth when you have them, and the advantages of age once you have those. The advantages of youth are energy, time, optimism, and freedom. The advantages of age are knowledge, efficiency, money, and power. With effort you can acquire some of the latter when young and keep some of the former when old.

Curiosity is the key to all four steps in doing great work: it will choose the field for you, get you to the frontier, cause you to notice the gaps in it, and drive you to explore them. The whole process is a kind of dance with curiosity.

"What did your face look like before your parents were born?"

"What is the color of wind?"

"What is the sound of one hand clapping?"

"Does a dog have Buddha-nature?"

"We act as though comfort and luxury were the chief requirements of life, when all that we need to make us happy is something to be enthusiastic about."

Not everything that is faced can be changed, but nothing can be changed until it is faced.

You make up your mind first and then you rationalize it second. But because of the odd mapping of your perceptions you're convinced beyond a doubt that your decisions are based on reason. They aren't.

“The world breaks everyone and afterward many are strong at the broken places. But those that will not break it kills. It kills the very good and the very gentle and the very brave impartially. If you are none of these you can be sure it will kill you too but there will be no special hurry.”

It's about how hard you can get hit and keep moving forward. How much you can take and keep moving forward.

Unchosen suffering is coming. The only thing you can do is to have some chosen suffering to prepare for it.

Tell them Why and What. Let them figure out the How.

Love, I’ve heard it said, is best spelled T-I-M-E.

Meaningful relationships are formed through commitment, not through freedom. You don’t need to search the entire country’s bars and restaurants for your perfect pals. Just pick some people, science says. Commit to them. They might not be NBA players or millionaires. But they’ll be yours. And that will be the best thing of all.

The best position to be in is rich and anonymous.

Work in accordance with the world, not against it.

go with the flow of things instead of swimming against the tides of nature’s laws.

Far too many good brains have been afflicted by the pointless enthusiasm for useless knowledge

But there is another more sinister reason people dismiss new ideas. If you try something ambitious, many of those around you will hope, consciously or unconsciously, that you'll fail. They worry that if you try something ambitious and succeed, it will put you above them. In some countries this is not just an individual failing but part of the national culture. I wouldn't claim that people in Silicon Valley overcome these impulses because they're morally better. [1] The reason many hope you'll succeed is that they hope to rise with you. For investors this incentive is particularly explicit. They want you to succeed because they hope you'll make them rich in the process. But many other people you meet can hope to benefit in some way from your success. At the very least they'll be able to say, when you're famous, that they've known you since way back.

Resource Curse: Countries with an abundance of natural resources such as diamonds and fossil fuels tend to have less economic growth and worse development than countries with fewer natural resources.

A leader is a strong, inspiring example. They don’t bully and yell. They earn their authority. They are strict with themselves and tolerant with others.

You only control your behavior. You have to meet everyone else where they are.

pessimists look at the news, while optimists look at the data

productive activities compared to speculation (which used to be 90/10) has flipped in the last fifty years to overly skew toward speculation.

minute city

Ask for help. Because, seriously. It takes far more courage and strength to ask for and receive help than it does to give help

To get rich you need to get yourself in a situation with two things, measurement and leverage. You need to be in a position where your performance can be measured, or there is no way to get paid more by doing more. And you have to have leverage, in the sense that the decisions you make have a big effect.

Always be stronger than you need to be. Leave room for the unexpected.

Imagine you are at the end of your life and you are granted the ability to repeat one day. Which period of your life do you choose to repeat?

WEALTH – MONEY RICH, TIME RICH, LOCATION RICH

“All human behaviour is either an act of love or a cry for love.”

It’s such a critical way of looking at the world: you can’t hate others for just wanting to be loved. We are all full of fears which are sometimes expressed through rage or – sadly – even violence.

Self-initiated work will more heavily shape your career than ‘client work’. We should always do something creative outside of our typical professional obligations. It makes us feel alive and will, eventually, bring new jobs/opportunities our way.

Do science. You don't need anybody's permission. Most great scientists have been dabblers and part-timers. Institutions and corporations monopolised science in the 20th century because they alone could build bombs and run clinical trials. But now the tools of science are cheap again and knowledge is almost free. "I hereby invite every curious human to do science and post it on the internet"

People don’t remember books, blogs, or articles. They remember sentences. That should be your goal: a collection of memorable sentences. One good line is infinitely more powerful than a few clumsy paragraphs.

learned that the more caring we gave each other, the tougher we could be on each other, and the tougher we were on each other, the better we performed and the more rewards there were for us to share

Aligning what you say with what you think and what you think with what you feel will make you much happier and much more successful.

Worry more about substance than style.

People who see the tasks and lose sight of the goals will just describe the tasks that were done.

to produce excellent results, meaningful work, and meaningful relationships through radical truth and transparency

While there might be more glamour in coming up with the brilliant new ideas, most of success comes from doing the mundane and often distasteful stuff, like identifying and dealing with problems and pushing hard over a long time.

Personally, I like visualizing exciting new and beautiful things that I want to make into realities. The excitement of visualizing these ideas and my desire to build them out is what pulls me through the thorny realities of life to make my dreams happen.

The really important kind of freedom involves attention, and awareness, and discipline, and effort, and being able truly to care about other people and to sacrifice for them, over and over, in myriad petty little unsexy ways, every day.

Material stuff makes no difference when you’re respected and admired for internal traits.

The financially most lucrative strategy for software companies is to provide distribution for free and instead monetize users who want to stand out of the crowd with paid signal amplification.

Who do you know that would benefit from you checking in?

everyone has experienced trauma and heartache of some kind—or if they’ve been fortunate to avoid it until now, sooner or later it will find them. Keep this in mind when dealing with people you find annoying.

‘Wealth is about time, not money.’ How you spend your time, and the desire to spend your time how you want, is the ultimate sign of wealth and achievement.

It’s so hard to forget pain, but it’s even harder to remember sweetness. We have no scar to show for happiness. We learn so little from peace.

Want to get ahead in life?
Start genuinely rooting for others to succeed.
It’s as simple as that.

If I had just one year left to live in good health, what would I do and who would I be?’

situations are naturally neutral—it’s your emotions that make them good or bad. With this in mind, don’t take things personally but instead treat difficult people or situations as curious puzzles to unravel or a learning experience.

The Joy of Missing Out. JOMO

The only rules are the ones dictated by the laws of physics. Everything else is a recommendation.

“Why waste time proving over and over how great you are,” Dweck writes, “when you could be getting better?”

Polymaths are evaluated by non-polymaths

the inflation of his mathematical and engineering ability makes sense when you consider that the judges in question are predominantly art historians.

Rather than as a Renaissance Man, Leonardo would be better regarded as an exceptional painter with various hobbies.

People hang on tightly to their dramas because they don’t know who they would be without them.

I’m not asking you to look life in the eye so that you can beat it down. I’m asking you to look deeply into its eyes like an innocent explorer

Learn the all-important concept of assiduity: Sit down and do it until it’s done.

The highest reach of civilization is a seamless system of trust among all parties concerned.

In your own life what you want is a seamless web of deserved trust. And if your proposed marriage contract has 47 pages, my suggestion is do not enter.

“Content is a lousy business to be in, unless you’ve got information worth paying for.” Put mathematically: differential profits from acting on an article must routinely exceed the differential cost of purchasing that information.

When you sell articles as entertainment, no action is expected.

Articles to spur action are quite different. Infotainment should be filtered out of your information diet.

I think we are overconsuming novelty and underconsuming purpose.

To get lucky, you must first take a chance.

As a guiding philosophy, “win and help win” will always outcompete “live and let live.”

The less money you need, the less dependent you are.

The ultimate morning routine is to be able to wake up whenever you want.

Without the frontier, it all became zero-sum

Start out with some end-state of the world you’d like to achieve; for example, youth extension, people on Mars, or building new cities. Your goal doesn’t have to be that ambitious. Usually it springs from some passion—often a positive passion, but sometimes a negative passion. For example, you might hate the way healthcare insurance works and try to fix it. Start with an idea and then look at all the business models that could succeed. Ask yourself, If this were to work, what could the impact be? Would we make enough money to make this a worthwhile investment?

At the beginning, goals are qualitative and mission-driven. Once you’re getting ten, twenty, thirty customers (for enterprises) or a few thousand (in consumers), you can start to think about optimizing.

This is where historical perspective and market research is key. A strong new plan for navigating the idea maze usually requires an obsession with the market and a unique insight others have not had.

Learn some history so as not to repeat it.

Set aside everything tech people are talking about, and look at the rest of human civilization. Look for the areas technology has not moved into yet. That’s where the opportunities will be.

You have 168 hours per week, ~112 awake. Substitute capital for time, technology for both. Avoid travel. Cancel meetings. Focus on doing.

stack all meetings on (for example) Monday and Thursday.

Then you are always no more than three days from a meeting, yet you get five focus days per week.

What you choose to load into your brain first thing in the morning is the most precious, precious space. Perhaps your first few hours should be offline with pen and paper, writing things out.

When you get up, set aside some focus time. Now you have at least a few hours each day where you’re moving the ball forward in your own self-determined direction. Say you get up at seven or eight, work out until nine, and stay offline until 1:00 p.m. You’ve done deep work for four hours straight. No one in the world can bother you, no one can get in touch with you, no one can tweet at you. You are offline to the entire world. That’s good because you are able to push forward on your priorities. Then you connect and synchronize. You push all your updates. Now you’re on the attack.

Drive your work forward before the rest of the world rushes in. You know it’s going to rush in, but you want to hold it back and drive your focus forward as much as you can, and then let the water of the day rush in.

You have to win off Twitter and announce on Twitter

Start, then learn. You have to learn while doing.

Learning with intent to use filters down information, and you can snap things into use immediately. That’s why I think a purpose-driven life is good. You have a purpose, and you think often about what that purpose is.

There are three keys to being fully charged each day: doing work that provides meaning to your life, having positive social interactions with others, and taking care of yourself so you have the energy you need to do the first two things.

Trying to maximize your own happiness can actually make you feel self-absorbed and lonely, but giving more can drive meaning and happiness in your life.

People who spend money on experiences are happier than those who spend on material things.

Write out your goals. It’s amazing how few people do. By writing out your goals, you prevent a random walk through life. So many people just wander through life.

Seek out friends who are "useless" to you — people you enjoy spending time with for no reason other than their company. These real friendships bring the deepest satisfaction.

Schedule leisure activities just as you would work obligations. If you leave time open, it often gets filled with work instead of self-care

Charlie Munger on achieving success:

It's so simple: you spend less than you earn.

Invest shrewdly.

Avoid toxic people and toxic activities.

Try to keep learning all your life.

And do a lot of deferred gratification.

If you do all those things, you are almost certain to succeed.

And if you don't, you'll need a lot of luck. And you don't want to need a lot of luck.

You want to go into a game where you're very likely to win without having any unusual luck.

The content creators who are gonna screw up are ones who do everything to everybody.

“Basically, when you get to my age, you’ll really measure your success in life by how many of the people you want to have love you actually do love you. I know people who have a lot of money, and they get testimonial dinners and they get hospital wings named after them. But the truth is that nobody in the world loves them. If you get to my age in life and nobody thinks well of you, I don’t care how big your bank account is, your life is a disaster.”

“I have striven not to laugh at human actions, not to weep at them, not to hate them, but to understand them.” – Baruch Spinoza

“Whenever you can in life, optimize for independence rather than pay. If you have independence and you’re accountable on your output, as opposed to your input – that’s the dream.” – Naval

For all of the most important things, the timing always sucks. Waiting for a good time to quit your job? The stars will never align and the traffic lights of life will never all be green at the same time. The universe doesn’t conspire against you, but it doesn’t go out of its way to line up all the pins either. Conditions are never perfect. “Someday” is a disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you. Pro and con lists are just as bad. If it’s important to you and you want to do it “eventually,” just do it and correct course along the way.

Stuck on your narrative? Try using this formula: “I’m ____, the ___ who can help you ____.”

For example: “I’m Jason, the sales and marketing strategist who can help you rapidly execute marketing campaigns and generate more revenue.”

This approach will make your resume MUCH more cohesive and actionable—which is critical when you only get a few short seconds of consideration.

Everyone understands the advantage of having a person to bounce ideas off of

“first class business in a first class way”. If you contact us, you're going to get a response. If we commit to doing something, we're going to do that thing.

Does the world happen to you, or do you happen to the world?

"I don't care enough to solve this on my own. Tell me what to do." The world happens to them.

The big thing is basically *everything* is on the calendar. Sleep is on the calendar, going to bed is in there and so is free time.

An effective way to build a network is to help people as much as you can.

Ambitious people attract other ambitious people. In positive-sum areas, they find ways to work together and help each other. That’s why inspiring goals make it easier to hire, raise money, and meet the kinds of people who can move the world with a single phone call.

When people feel like you deserve more than you have, they'll go out of their way to help you. But the minute you forget you were once the underdog, they'll root against you.

Quality of India is suffering greatly at 5 main buckets - energy, education, housing, healthcare, and transportation.

You want to have a reputation for pushing people hard enough that they accomplish more than they thought they could, but not so hard they burn out.

I try to always ask myself when I meet someone new “Is this person a force of nature?” It’s a pretty good heuristic for finding people who are likely to accomplish great things.

The best way to make things that increase rapidly in value is by making things people want at scale.

“Understanding these two metrics matters more than anything I’d find in a traditional analytics dashboard. What I’m optimizing for isn’t growth, certainty, or control. It’s not the maximization of short-term revenue, reach, or influence. Instead, I’m chasing connection – both with myself and with others. I’m trying to design an infinite game, where I spend my days working on things that bring me alive, hence the internal resonance score, and connecting with a relatively small handful of true fans, hence the external resonance score.”

The pessimist sees a pile of horseshit and thinks that’s all there is. The optimist thinks that if there is enough horseshit around, there must be a pony someplace.

I don’t hate my work, but I don’t do it because I love it. I do it because I love my wife and kids and want to provide for them.

All the technique in the world doesn't compensate for the inability to notice.

Find out what you're best at and keep pounding away at it.

Focus on production to meet needs, rather than consumption to meet wants.

If bored and struggling with ideas -- just keep walking until the day becomes interesting.

‘Oh, don’t ignore that feeling. Find a way to follow that feeling of doing work that doesn’t feel arduous in any sort of way.’”

Knowing the right questions is much harder than having the answers.

I’ve concluded that the metric by which God will assess my life isn’t dollars but the individual people whose lives I’ve touched.

The chief prevention against getting old is to remain astonished.

History is people with ships and weapons wiping out those who forgot to invent them. It is the rule of the universe. The immutable law of the jungle, even in jungle of concrete. You can see it in the movement of the stars, and in the dance of every atom. The rich will enslave the penniless. The strong will crush the weak.

Zola saw that the joy of shopping lay not in the thing that was bought, but in the freedom to choose and to spend

Be a yardstick of quality. Some people aren't used to an environment where excellence is expected.

Freedom is completely available, always, right here and right now. You do not earn your way to it.

Average fitness enthusiasts mindlessly follow the same workout routine each week. The best athletes actively critique each repetition and constantly improve their technique. It is the revision that matters most.

Don’t argue; try it. If it works, let it spread.

There’s lots of ways to be, as a person. And some people express their deep appreciation in different ways. But one of the ways that I believe people express their appreciation to the rest of humanity is to make something wonderful and put it out there.

To be an artist, you don’t have to compose music or paint or be in the movies or write books. It’s just a way of living. It has to do with paying attention, remembering, filtering what you see and answering back, participating in life.

% of coders will be making productivity software. The other 10% will be making productivity tools for the people who make productivity software. When the sea levels rise we’ll float through our cities on Kanban boards like Venice while discussing new agile practices

Algorithms prioritizing selfies over sunflowers, algorithms amplifying the word I, algorithms doping us on the dopamine of being noticed, seducing us into forgetting the art and joy of noticing – that crowning glory of consciousness. And somewhere, in the quiet core of our being, this frantic hunt for likes is making us like ourselves less

Being Mortal shows how the ultimate goal is not a good death but a good life – all the way to the very end.

It is hard to imagine a more stupid or more dangerous way of making decisions than by putting those decisions in the hands of people who pay no price for being wrong.

MITI’s vision for the 1980s was of a technology-based Japan that embarked on the continuous acquisition and exploitation of new knowledge to serve the needs of men and societies.

One of the best pieces of advice was from my Year Two teacher, on how to draw a bicycle: “Spend twice as much time looking at it than drawing it.” I apply that to so many areas. More time listening than talking. More observing than doing. The outcome will always be better

History knows three things: 1) What’s been photographed, 2) what someone wrote down or recorded, 3) words spoken by people who historians and journalists wanted to interview and who agreed to be interviewed. What percentage of everything important that’s ever happened falls into one of those three? No one knows. But it’s tiny. And all three suffer from misinterpretation, incompleteness, embellishment, lying, and selective memories.

A high-quality audience is an endless source of opportunities. A low quality one is at most a Ponzi scheme.

If you ever notice that you’re trying to “say something interesting”, stop.

if you have a great story to tell or learned something important, people will pay attention no matter how bad your writing is. Not convinced? Just look at the essay you’re reading right now

Save yourself thousands of dollars. Here’s all the writing advice you need:

Share meaningful first-hand experiences.

Write as if you were emailing a friend, not to impress an imaginary teacher.

Don’t convert the quest for truth into a quest for certainty (a feeling) or for endorsement (a social status).

Tim Urban’s Traffic Test — a metaphorical test where you and a friend are in a car together driving home. If you're hoping for traffic because you enjoy their company and conversation, they pass the test. If you encounter traffic and feel a sense of dread, they don't pass.

The problem is no longer getting to express oneself but finding moments of solitude and silence in which one might eventually find something worth saying

Don’t worry about looking good; worry about achieving your goal.

Only usefulness and rarity of your skillset will make you money.

We prepare at home to go to “work.” And we prepare at work to go “home.” And, as a result, we Live neither.

Somebody, somewhere, is still tweaking a piece of software, testing a new material, or transferring a gene that will make your and my life easier in the future.

The more you prosper, the more you can prosper. The more you invent, the more inventions become possible. The dissemination of useful knowledge causes that useful knowledge to breed more useful knowledge.

"A persuasive negotiator is someone who's a persuasive listener. Because when you listen to someone, you are seeing them, you are hearing them, you're attuning to them. You ask them questions. What is it that you really want here? You're showing interest in them. That is the basic level of respect. And in addition to that, it gives you a lot of information about what they want so that you can more effectively influence them to arrive at something that satisfies their needs and satisfies yours at the same time."

Not all progress is visible. Not all victories are celebrated. Just because others can't see the results doesn't mean you're not getting better. Just because someone is ahead of you doesn't mean you are on the wrong trajectory. Just because no one notices doesn't mean it doesn't matter. Just because there is no applause doesn't mean you didn't score.

She wants the problems of connection rather than the problems of having to find that connection.

If you can’t walk away, then you don’t have the job…the job has you.

“Who do you have the least amount of filter with when you’re around them?”

Another good question here is “who you can sit in silence with and not have to fill it?”

The greatest challenge of being alive, to witness the injustice of the world and not allow it to consume our light.

"Who knows you is more important than who you know.  Build a brand.

Most people end up being conformists; they adapt to prison life. A few become reformers; they fight for better lighting, better ventilation. Hardly anyone becomes a rebel, a revolutionary who breaks down the prison walls. You can only be a revolutionary when you see the prison walls in the first place.

Arguably the most important skill is controlling your attention. This goes beyond merely avoiding distractions. The deeper skill is finding the highest and best use for your time, given what is important to you. More than anything else, controlling your attention is about being able to figure out what you should be working on and identifying what truly moves the needle.

i) Look for optionality; in fact,

rank things according to optionality, (ii) preferably with open-ended, not closed-ended,

payoffs; (iii) Do not invest in business plans but in people, so look for someone

capable of changing six or seven times over his career, or more (an idea that is part of

the modus operandi of the venture capitalist Marc Andreessen); one gets immunity from

the backfit narratives of the business plan by investing in people. It is simply more

robust to do so; (iv) Make sure you are barbelled, whatever that means in your

business.

Writing tips

​Kevin Kelly: Don't aim to be the best. Be the only.​

​Cultural Tutor: If it was published in the past 50 years, don't read it.​

Marc Andreessen: Use a barbell approach to consume information.​

​Riva Tez: Your writing doesn't need to be logical. It can be a word painting.​

Tim Ferriss: Focus on quality, not volume. ​

Ava Huang: Good writing requires reaching beyond consensus.​

Howard Marks: Find your creed.​
​Yogi Berra once said, "In theory, there's no difference between theory and practice. But, in practice, there is." ​​

Amor Towles: You have a duty to fulfill your side of the covenant with your readers.

​Sam Parr: To find your voice as a writer, do copywork. ​

​Steven Pressfield: The Female Carries the Mystery​
​

Money gives you the ability to walk away from people, places and situations you don’t like.

To travel means, ultimately, nothing more than coming back home a different person from the one who left.

A Chinese leader, historian, and friend of mine told me several years ago that the conditions of the times create the type of leader that emerges because the evolutionary process pulls out the leader who suits the environment. In other words, how the times are transpiring determines the leader even more than the leader determines how the times are going.

Conveniently, the most prestigious and well-known companies are the best at getting out of your way.

The best way to make friends is by working on a large and intense project together. This could be a conference, a camp or a startup.

Try to make ambitious and smart friends who do cool things. The best way to do so is to be smart and ambitious yourself, and do cool things.

Bliss is an abandonment of the search for happiness. And the abandonment of the search for pleasure.

Are you a force of nature or a selfish little clod complaining that life is so unfair. George Bernard Shaw

ss

long-term growth trajectory is up and to the right, but equally sure that the road between now and then is filled with landmines, and always will be. Those two things are not mutually exclusive.

Define the game you are playing and make sure your actions are not influenced by people playing a different game.

The appetite for applause counts amongst the lowest of human character traits.

Happiness is that feeling you get right before you need more happiness

mental toughness or heroism or other qualities of character are merely the outcome of what the situation demands.

We repeatedly enlarge our instruments without enlarging our purpose. We have developed more complex ways to pursue basic human needs

Progress is an improvement in the means that we use for achieving the same old ends. It’s possible that our progress is only of means and not of ends. Do we merely achieve the same desires of 10,000 years ago, but through new, modern means.

Reality is messy and complicated, so our tendency to simplify it is understandable. However, if the aim becomes simplification rather than understanding we start to make bad decisions.

Exaptation in biology: The original purpose of feathers was for attracting mates, not for flying. Flying became possible at a later stage.

There are many ways to create a company, but only one good one: To deeply understand real customers (living humans!) and their problem, and then solve that problem

Connected detachment.

Unspoken expectations are premeditated resentments.

Its harder to conquer yourselves than to conquer the world.

The cleverest trick of ego is to bend spirituality for its uses.

People follow leaders who make them feel good about themselves.

You are almost certainly not saying enough positive stuff. You’re not saying ‘good job’ enough. ‘Thank you’ enough. ‘I love you enough.’ You are not complimenting, congratulating, or appreciating enough.

When you're playing a point, it has to be the most important thing in the world, and it is. But when it's behind you, It's behind you. This mindset is really crucial because it frees you to fully commit to the next point and the next point after that, with intensity, clarity, and focus.

subconscious is incredibly smart and incredibly dumb. Protect your subconscious.

We practice meditation not to attain Buddhahood but to express it.

You do not have to earn love. You simply have to exist. You are worthy of love whether or not you accomplish great things.

The audacity to dream a different world with the humility to start with the world as it is.

The humility to see the world as it is and the audacity to imagine the world as it could be.

What matters is to be in the arena.

If you are not called crazy, you are not thinking big enough.

In order to become a grandmaster, you must already be one.

The feeling of looking like a failure has become more of a fuel than a burden.

One can be at bliss and pursue audacious dreams at the same time.

How to be at bliss – sit with life.

How to pursue audacious dreams : What are we seeking? Define clearly. Being with the problem is everything.

Non-coercive marketing is about radical honesty. It’s about being courageous enough to say what’s true, even if it’s unpopular, unflattering, or dredges up insecurities. It’s about leaning into full authenticity and openness, because that’s how you stand out, find the others, and build deep relationships in a world where most marketing is inauthentic performance art.

"It doesn’t sound revolutionary to suggest that the key to maintaining your friendships through the hurricane of early parenthood is simply to do the hard slog of communicating and committing, but it actually is.

One of the benefits of working hard is that good opportunities will come along, but it’s still up to you to jump on them when they do.

Create an hour or two every day where you don’t need an ounce of brainpower and everything happens on autopilot

Volatility. People having bad days. Office politics. Difficult personalities. Bureaucracy. All of them are bad. But all have to be endured to some degree if you want to get anything done.

You can either build your dream, or help someone build theirs.

So, Earth is 4.5 billion years old. And for the first 500 million years or so, it could reasonably be described as “just a bunch of rocks and water”. Sometime around 4 billion years ago, the first single-celled lifeforms emerged. Here they are accreting into a so-called “microbial mat”. A good while later, around 1.5 billion years ago, green algae arose. This is the proverbial “pond scum”. Then, around 500 million years ago, plants begin to colonize the land. But these plants lacked vasculature and had to live very low to the ground (think mosses). It wasn’t until 400 million years ago that plants like ferns developed stems and shot up into the sky: until approximately 130 million years ago, when suddenly this happened : flowers.

Dominance is based on fear (who can hurt me?), whereas prestige is based on attraction (who can help me?)

People want to invest in companies and funds that are transparent, forthright and aim to be around for decades instead of days. Same goes for friends.

Once you do things quietly you become selfish in the best way – using money to improve your life more than you try to influence other people’s perception of your life. I’d rather wake up and be able to do anything I want, with whom I want, for as long as I want, than I would try to impress you with a nice car.

Build, don't babble.

The most prolific thief of attention is mental time travel, which is ruminating on the past or worrying about the future. Mindfulness alleviates this effect because it keeps us in the present moment.

“The danger of social media isn’t that we are being watched, it’s that we become the watchers. We turn into each other’s audience, judging from afar. We become each other’s data harvesters, knowing who went where, at when and with whom. We even become each other’s digital oppressors: we form a limited perception of who we think someone is based on what they post, and when they do something that doesn’t conform to the imposed image of them, we punish them. ‘You fell off.’ ‘I was a fan but you went too far.’ ‘Unfollowed.’”

Become what you want to see in the world, and the world will return it to you. If you want an amazing relationship with your partner, be an amazing partner. If you want people to be thoughtful and kind to you, be thoughtful and kind to them. If you want people to listen to you, listen to them. The best way to achieve success is to deserve success. Small changes in your actions change your entire world.

if you want to be blessed with all the good things in life, learn to silently bless everyone with all the good things in life.

“Always get dressed even if you have no plans, to be ready for whatever the day may bring.”

“The universe is the answer. What is the question? Or what are the questions?”

You did not enter into some trade with reality when you were born, only being accepted for as long as you can provide value as recompense. Maybe your jokes are less funny and your stories are less original and your aura is less energizing. But you are not going to be abandoned. Your friends want to help, and need nothing in return.

An award for people who finds out the stupidest thing a company does

Conversations : get curious, not furious

Rather, the real root of suffering is this never-ending and pointless pursuit of ephemeral feelings, which causes us to be in a constant state of tension, restlessness and dissatisfaction. Due to this pursuit, the mind is never satisfied. Even when experiencing pleasure, it is not content, because it fears this feeling might soon disappear, and craves that this feeling should stay and intensify. Realize how pointless it is to pursue them. When the pursuit stops, the mind becomes very relaxed, clear and satisfied. All kinds of feelings go on arising and passing . Joy, anger, boredom, lust . But once you stop craving particular feelings, you can just accept them for what they are. You live in the present moment instead of fantasizing about what might have been.

Nobody is ever made happy by winning the lottery, buying a house, getting a promotion or even finding true love. People are made happy by one thing and one thing only : pleasant sensations in their bodies. A person who just won the lottery or found new love and jumps from joy is not really reacting to the money or the lover. She is reacting to various hormones coursing through her bloodstream, and to the storm of electric signals flashing between different parts of her brain.

And without emptiness—open, available, nonproductive space—to cushion the contents of the atom, matter can't exist and everything in the universe "crumbles to an invisible fine dust."

When thinking about our own lives, we don’t remember how we actually felt in the past; We remember how we think we should have felt, given what we know today.

The past wasn’t as good as you remember. The present isn’t as bad as you think. The future will be better than you anticipate.

If you really have a feeling of contribution, you will no longer have any need for recognition from others.

勇気ある撤退 yuuki aru tettai– courageous retreat

Ketsuui - determination

There’s no such thing as happiness. Rather, a fragile contentment with the way things are. Broken by unhappiness, the pain of wanting something. Until we get it or get over it. Returning to an interlude of gratitude without reason, beauty without motive, love without demand.

Nothing is more mentally exhausting than waking up every morning without clear short-term goals and a clear long-term vision.

Jennie Jerome, Winston Churchill's mother, once dined with both Prime Minister Benjamin Disraeli and his rival, William Gladstone, on consecutive nights.

When asked about her impressions of the two men, she said, “When I left the dining room after sitting next to Gladstone, I thought he was the cleverest man in England. But when I sat next to Disraeli I left feeling that I was the cleverest woman”.

Some people feel interesting, some people make us feel interesting.

Modern luxury is the ability to think clearly, sleep deeply, move slowly, and live quietly in a world designed to prevent all four.

Ebullience

Its very simple to be happy, but it’s very difficult to be simple.

An effective way to build a network is to help people as much as you can

One of the best ways to build a network is to develop a reputation for really taking care of the people who work with you.

I try to always ask myself when I meet someone new “is this person a force of nature?” It’s a pretty good heuristic for finding people who are likely to accomplish great things.

Most people should spend way less energy trying to get rich and way more energy building a tight-knit friend group that will be with them until old age

If in 10 minutes you cannot understand what’s going on, it means the person on the other end doesn’t understand what’s going on and there isn’t anything to understand.

The cost of convenience is vitality. You can have a lot of things done for you in the modern world — and many of them are great time savers! — but the feeling of being alive comes from being fully engaged in the right task, not free from all tasks.

Sure, you can automate and delegate all sorts of things, but the more interesting question is, "What fills you with so much liveliness that you want to do the work yourself?"

Ken Thompson built the basic chassis of UNIX in a week when his wife went on vacation and he had a lot of time on his hands

I still don’t think I fully understand why these miracle years keep showing up in the lives of great scientists, except that it has something to do with them being young, concentrating intensely on the right problems, and remaining open to fresh perspectives.

Gladiator entrepreneurs

Roles of strategy are for now, safe from AI occupation.

We are willing to sacrifice everything we have for the thing that we want and once when we get the thing we want, we want back the things that we sacrificed. We want it all.

While others chased hits, he stockpiled greatness.

He didn’t just live in Japan — he changed it”

What if your entire life was actually just preparation for helping Earth adapt to climate collapse — and you had 20 years to build the systems that would save entire cities?

Purpose of life. Questions.

What made me weird as a kid?

When do I lose track of time? Flow

What do people thank me for?

What’s my sentence?

When its all said and done, what do you want people to say about you. In one sentence.

Nelson Mandela – He ended apartheid and united a divided nation.

Winston Churchil - he inspire Britain to withstand its darkest hour and led the fight against tyranny.

Woman to JFF – a great person is a sentence.

Where can I make my biggest contribution?

Start with demand side of equation.

What would I do if I didn’t have to work for money?

What will I regret when I am 90? Regrets of inaction

Biggest inaction regrets

Not being bolder

Not starting a business

Not travelling

Not speaking up when it matters

Not taking their shot

Paleolithic institutions, medieval institutions, god-like technology

Ignore everything that has nothing to do with your life.

Genes load the gun. Environment pulls the trigger.

The system won’t fix itself for you. When merit meets politics, choose exodus over argument. Leave.

When you know how to create value and do it without being told, there's no cap. This is structural, not personal.

Comedians are the only good thought leaders because they understand how the world works but they want to make you laugh rather than make themselves feel smart.

You have five seconds to get people’s attention. Books, blogs, emails, reports, it doesn’t matter – if you don’t sell them in five seconds you’ve exhausted most of their patience.

Explain ??? concept as if Richard feynman would explain it is the coolest chatgpt prompt ever

All of us, but especially children, need such confidence—confidence that others will know, affirm, and cherish us. Without that we can’t develop a sense of agency that will enable us to assert: “This is what I believe in; this is what I stand for; this is what I will devote myself to.” As long as we feel safely held in the hearts and minds of the people who love us, we will climb mountains and cross deserts and stay up all night to finish projects. Children and adults will do anything for people they trust and whose opinion they value.

“The love that you withhold is the pain that you carry.”

The whale that surfaces gets harpooned.

Print photos and send them to people. (Such a nice thing to slip into a thank you note, as I learned from my newlywed friends who sent pictures of me & guests from their wedding)

I know that showing up is the ultimate act of love. Go to every wedding and every funeral. But more importantly: Go to every sick person’s bedside

I know how valuable long-term friends are. If you’re lucky enough to have friends of over a decade, carve out intentional time to ask them about all the years they lived before you blasted onto the scene.

“In every work of genius, we recognize our own rejected thoughts; they come back to us with a certain alienated majesty.”

you have to do what is very natural to you. And part of the trick is picking a business where the thing that is natural to you lines up nicely or picking a role within that business or picking a co-founder in that business. It is a fit problem. It is a matching problem. And the good news is in the modern world, there are unlimited opportunities.

you’re going to create great products, going to productize yourself and create money as a byproduct. The same way, if you want to be happy, you minimize yourself and you engage in high flow activities or engage in activities that take you out of your own self and you end up with happiness.

Life is lived in the arena. You only learn by doing. And if you’re not doing, then all the learning you’re picking up is too general and too abstract.

what makes people happy is having options – doing what you want, with who you want, when you want, where you want. And options come from savings and assets, which are the opposite of spending.

If there is an epidemic, you will hear about it. If there is a war, you will hear about it. You do not need news.

I want to talk about what I like, not what I hate.

Bas ek hi kamre me rehta hai aadmi, baaki kamro me uska guroor rehta hai.

There are 3 kinds of people: those who make it happen, those who watch it happen, and occasionally, someone who don’t know what happened.

What counts as “moderate” or “vigorous”? Use the sing/talk test. Moderate exercise means you can talk but can’t sing while exercising. Vigorous exercise makes it hard to talk without interruptions to take a breath.

The hardest thing to teach a student—and the hardest thing to believe consistently—is that there is nothing ‘out there’ to go and get. There is no part, no career, no opportunity for which you should be searching and scrounging and coveting. All of the preparation is within, and you keep yourself mentally and physically fit; you remain generous with yourself and others; you stay deeply in study about your craft. Whatever is yours will then arrive.

A lion is fully capable of capturing, killing, and eating a field mouse. But it turns out that the energy required to do so exceeds the caloric content of the mouse itself. So a lion that spent its day hunting and eating field mice would slowly starve to death. A lion can’t live on field mice. A lion needs antelope. Antelope are big animals. They take more speed and strength to capture and kill, and once killed, they provide a feast for the lion and her pride. A lion can live a long and happy life on a diet of antelope. The distinction is important. Are you spending all your time and exhausting all your energy catching field mice? In the short term it might give you a nice, rewarding feeling. But in the long run you’re going to die. So ask yourself at the end of the day, “Did I spend today chasing mice or hunting antelope?”

All the help you were given which you couldn’t see, refused to see is still help

I cant hear what you are saying, your actions are speaking way louder than

Nunchi - seeing the room/truth

Not a happy positive thing

Discerning eye

Hide your strength and bide your time

Decide who you want respect from, then go aggressively. Ignore others

Men only want four things and it’s disgusting: lift weights, see friends, do business, and raise a family

No matter how mature, adult and sophisticated a person might seem, that person is still essentially an ex- baby

Don’t look cool, serve. Be of value. Nobody wants you to look cool.

Nice. Another goal to let go of.

Sukh aur dukh dono tumhara kuch bighaad nahi sakta

Unchosen suffering is coming. The only thing you can do is to have some chosen suffering to prepare for it. The devastation, the trauma is coming

Universe - 13.8 billion years ago

Life - 3.8 billion years ago

,000 years ago - early homo sapiens

,000 years ago- advanced homo sapiens

Why homo sapiens - cooperation

How cooperation- stories (fiction)

To know if you are happy or not is difficult. When you suffer, you know.

Freedom is something that dies unless it’s used

Enough money to not care about money. No need for billions

“If someone could only see your actions and not hear your words, what would they say are your priorities?”

You are happy - period. Not happy because of

A childs life should be good, not easy

Be really really demanding and very very supportive

Wouldn’t it be better, he thought, to make yourself strong enough not to need whatever you were hoping the gods would grace you with?

The seagull may intend to fly away, may decide to do so, may talk with the other seagulls about how wonderful it is to fly, but until the seagull flaps his wings and takes to the air, he is still on the dock

जो खानदानी रईस हैं वो मिज़ाज रखते हैं नर्म अपना 
तुम्हारा लहजा बता रहा है, तुम्हारी दौलत नई नई है

All the responsibility you abdicate will be taken up by tyrants

Confidence Undeniable stack of evidence

There are 7 billion people in the world who would instantly trade all their problems for all of my problems.

Health, income, relationships

Then aspirations, ambitions and daily life

Never assign human value to last 3

You think you lack motivation, what you are lacking is clarity

One phone call away from devastation

There are very few overnight miracles but there are lot of overnight tragedies

Reduce expenditure instead of beating the market. Keep lifestyle in check. Be reasonable with our money.

Drop everything and drop akshay too

Jomo joy of missing out

You dont want to look like your heroes, you want to see like your heroes

Imaginee if we have no need. Be there.

You are on social media to get the attention you didn’t get in real life

‘If you experience ‘flow-state’ for 1 or 2 hours a day, you do not need material things to keep you happy.’

The stone age didnt end because it ran out of stones

Say Why me? to good things too. Wish good things to little Akshay

“..you must be independent, preferably rich, physically strong & threatening to those who try to fuck with you.”

Keep your prosperity to yourself and enjoy in private. Do not gloat and do not make yourself a target. Blend in.

All things must come to you, you cannot be the chaser.

If you had a year to live, you wont manage things, you would seek cure.

There is no trying to help, you put out the nectar out there and one who is attracted will come

Perfection comes from effortlessness not effort

People gravitate towards the only one.

You can train a man to not do something by giving him a shock but you cannot pay him to do something

राजे! माणसाला पराजय पचविता येतो; यश पचविणं इतकं सोपं नाही. मिळालेल्या यशानं तुम्ही वाहवलात याचा आम्हाला दुःख आहे.

Just do it or don't do it don't try to look cool

Those who ask how don't really want to get there

“Do not roam among the haggard and the meek. Do not fight for the scraps of food that are moist with stagnant rains. Do not enter the crucible of egoistic humans who compete over dime and dollar. Rise, my friend. And insist first upon the glory of Freedom. So that no arena can contain you. And no human can equal you. For your journey is unlike any other human in the field.”

be rich enough to live an absolutely simple life

भोग सारे संपले रे ...

उरलेत थोडे कर्तव्य काही

दुःख उधळायास आता

आसवांना वेळ नाही ।।

Doing is reactive

Understanding is everything

The greatest luxury is the feeling of being unrushed

Actual ground breaking work, like actual reality, is boring.

My fake plants died when i stopped pretending to water them.

Push for things you like instead of bashing things you hate

People today spend a great deal of money on holidays abroad because they are true believers in the myths of romantic consumerism. Romanticism tells us that in order to make the most of our human potential we must have as many different experiences as we can.

The further you want to climb, the more carefully you need to construct your tribe.

The purpose of life, as far as I can tell, is to find a mode of being that’s so meaningful that the fact that life is suffering is no longer relevant

Adventure is dangerous but routine is lethal

Your partner does not owe you anything, you brought them in your life. They are here to receive love, not to give love.

Hurt people hurt people

Let the mind tell the body who the fucking boss is

Be only an opportunist, do not stay loyal to your past or values

I don’t know what is happiness so I am never unhappy. A happy man would never seek happiness.

Nobody wants a new car everyone just wants to be loved and respected.

All doings are an escape from seeing

You tend your mind and then you tend to the garden of the world.

We are not here to pay bills and die we are here to wonder and Be awed

If society convinces to you what do you do matters after you're dead, then society can control you. Legacy is what Strangers will think of me after I'm dead. Its nonsense.

Building a business from the ground up is one of the most fulfilling achievements you’ll ever experience.

Inevitability of success.

Don't hope for success, know that it's going to happen

Your reputation isn’t what you shout, it’s what people whisper.

The only true test of intelligence  is if you get what you want out of your life

Someone always has an advantage. If you don’t know who, it isn’t you.

Mandatory work earns you a living. Voluntary work earns you a future.

The work you do during regular hours earns you a paycheck, but it's what you do (or don't do) outside of those hours that earns you opportunity.

I've seen many people fight this insight, and almost none of them win.

If you’re always thinking about appearances and looking good, you can never attain the state of concentration that’s necessary for effective learning and top performance.

It’s not that you can’t do deep squats because you’re old, it’s that you’re old because you can’t do deep squats.

One of the biggest things holding people back from doing great work is the fear of making something lame. And this fear is not an irrational one. Many great projects go through a stage early on where they don't seem very impressive, even to their creators. You have to push through this stage to reach the great work that lies beyond. But many people don't. Most people don't even reach the stage of making something they're embarrassed by, let alone continue past it. They're too frightened even to start. 
Imagine if we could turn off the fear of making something lame. Imagine how much more we'd do.

Natural Dopamine; Being bored, Chasing goals, Reading books, Turning off phone, Showering cold, Home cleaning, Lifting weights, Eating protein

Natural Oxytocin; Cuddling pets, Hugging people, Saying thank you, Deep conversations, Listening carefully, Making eye contact, Saying I love you, Helping others

Natural Serotonin; Eating fruits, Morning sun, Forest bathing, Breathing slowly, Headphone-free walks, Drinking herbal tea, Sleeping deeply, Taking naps

Natural Endorphins; Car singing, Warm baths, Nature hiking, Daily stretching, Running fast, Kitchen dancing, Lifting weights, Hot saunas

If you find yourself wanting something month after month, year after year, yet nothing happens and you never come any closer to it, then maybe what you actually want is a fantasy, an idealization, an image, a false promise. Maybe what you want isn’t what you want—you just enjoy wanting. Maybe you don’t actually want it at all.

And what took me a long time to discover was that I didn’t like to climb much. I just liked to imagine the top.

I wanted the reward and not the struggle. I wanted the result and not the process. I was in love not with the fight, but only the victory.

At night: Capture insights (reading). In the morning : Build fire.

Go at it boldly, and you'll find unexpected forces closing round you and coming to your aid.

If the best part of the day is an hour of me enjoying with myself, then the world has nothing to offer me.

If you were to sit at a table and listen to all the problems of everyone, you would happily have your problems back.